Thinking Thoughts (experimental)
Auto

Expand to view model thoughts
chevron_right

company, if the order is served to the company's or association's registered office address and a signature is obtained, the slip submitted to the court by the post office shall be considered as evidence that the order was served to that party.

Appearance in Court
174.
(a) Every person who receives a court summons order must appear in court on the date and at the time specified in the order.
(b) If a person, after receiving a court summons order as specified in subsection (a) of this Article, fails to appear at the time specified in the order without a valid excuse, or refuses to accept the order, it shall be considered as disobedience to the court's order, and the court has the discretion to take action against them. If the person who failed to appear or refused to accept the order is the defendant, the court also has the discretion to have them arrested and brought to court.
(c) If a person, after receiving a court summons order as specified in subsection (a) of this Article, fails to appear in court at the specified time without a valid excuse, the court has the discretion to fine that person in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
(d) If a person who has received a court summons order is unable to appear in court due to a valid excuse, they must inform the court of the reason at least 1 (one) hour before the time specified in the order. A valid excuse shall be considered the occurrence of one of the following circumstances.
(1) The person required to appear has an illness that prevents them from appearing in court;
(2) Sea and land travel is not possible due to bad weather;
(3) Another excuse acceptable to the judge arises.
(e) If the reason for not being able to appear in court as specified in subsection (d) of this Article is illness, a medical form issued by the court must be filled out and submitted to the court within 2 (two) non-official holiday days.
(f) In a situation where the truthfulness of a document completed and brought from such a place as specified in subsection (e) of this Article needs to be verified, the persons who have signed the form may be summoned to court.

Serving an Order to a Person on Another Island or in Another Country
175.
(a) If the person required to be summoned to court is on an island other than the one where the court hearing the case is located, the request to serve the order to summon that person shall be made to the court on the island where that person is. If there is no court on the island where that person is, the order shall be served by the island court of the nearest island to the one where that person is.
(b) In the situation in subsection (a) of this Article, the order served to that person shall be an order prepared by the court on the island specified in that subsection. However, all necessary measures to be taken for non-appearance for that order shall be taken by the court hearing the case.
(c) If the person required to be summoned to court is outside the Maldives, the request to serve the order to summon that person shall be made to the relevant authority of that country as specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Regulation on Summoning Persons
176.
The procedures regarding summoning persons to trial, issuing summons orders, and serving orders shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Expenses Incurred in Summoning Witnesses
177.
(a) If a person the defendant wishes to summon is on an island other than the one where the court hearing the case is located, or outside the Maldives, the travel expenses and the expenses for that person's stay on that island shall be borne by the defendant.
(b) If a witness the state wishes to summon is on an island other than the one where the court hearing the trial is located, or outside the Maldives, the travel expenses and the expenses for that person's stay on that island shall be borne by the state.
(c) The procedures for the defendant and the state to bear the expenses they are required to bear under subsections (a) and (b) of this Article shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Bringing Persons in Custody to Court
178.
If a person required to be summoned to court is a person in custody, upon sending the order to bring them to court to the institution where they are held in custody, that institution must serve the order to that person and bring them to court at the time specified in the order.

Dress Code for Persons Appearing in Court
179.
Persons appearing in court must be dressed in attire appropriate to the dignity of the court. The standards to be maintained in dress when appearing in court shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX
REPORT ON THE OUTCOME OF THE TRIAL

A Report on the Outcome of the Trial for Every Case
180.
Upon the conclusion of a trial conducted by a court of competent jurisdiction, with the judgment delivered and the sentence determined, the judge who heard the case must prepare a report on the outcome of the trial of that case.

Matters to be Included in the Report
181.
(a) The report on the outcome of the trial must include the following information.
(1) Information identifying the defendant;
(2) The defendant's age or date of birth;
(3) The date the case was submitted to the court and the date it was concluded;
(4) The nature of the charge brought by the state and a summary of the charge;
(5) Documents related to the charge;
(6) The judgment delivered in that case, including the information specified in Article 155(b) or Article 156(b) of this Act;
(7) Additional information specified in the regulations made under this Act for inclusion in the report.
(b) The report on the outcome of the trial must be signed by the judge who heard the case and have the court's seal affixed.

Request by Parties Related to the Case to Obtain the Report
182.
If parties related to a case request to obtain the report on the outcome of the trial, a true copy of that report must be issued to that party as soon as possible, in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

PART SIX
POST-TRIAL STAGE

CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN
ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT

Order for Enforcement of Judgment
183.
(a) If the sentence in a judgment delivered by the court convicting the defendant is imprisonment in a jail or any other place, the court must order the institution that enforces sentences to enforce that sentence.
(b) To enforce an order made by the court in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article, upon the court's instruction to the institution that enforces sentences to take custody of the person on whom the court has delivered judgment, that institution must immediately take custody of that person. And if such an order is made by the court on an island where an institution that enforces sentences is not established, upon the court's instruction to the police to take custody of the person on whom the court has delivered judgment, the police must immediately take custody of that person and hand them over to the institution that enforces sentences as soon as possible.

Matters to be Included in the Order for Enforcement of Judgment
184.
The order sent by the court to the institution that enforces sentences for the enforcement of a judgment under Article 183 of this Act must include the following information.
(a) Information identifying the convict;
(b) The convict's age or date of birth;
(c) If the convict is in custody, the place where they are held in custody and the manner of their custody;
(d) The proven offense;
(e) The sentence to be enforced;
(f) The court that delivered the judgment and the case number;
(g) The date the judgment was delivered;
(h) If they were in custody until the judgment, the period they were in custody.

Enforcement of More Than One Judgment
185.
In a situation where more than one judgment has been determined for a person, the judgments shall be enforced in accordance with the provisions of Act No. 9/2014 (Maldives Penal Code).

Deduction of Period of Custody from the Term of Judgment
186.
Unless otherwise specified in a law, in a situation where the defendant is in custody until the court delivers judgment, if the defendant is convicted of the crime and the sentence in the judgment delivered by the court against them is imprisonment, the period they were in custody until the judgment must be deducted from the term of the judgment.

Maintaining a Criminal Record
187.
(a) The Attorney General must, within 30 (thirty) days from the commencement of this Act, designate an agency to centrally maintain criminal records.
(b) The agency designated under subsection (a) of this Article to centrally maintain criminal records must, within 6 (six) months from its designation, establish a system for centrally maintaining criminal records.
(c) The system established under subsection (b) of this Article must be a system that is accessible to all the institutions included in the criminal justice system.
(d) All procedures related to the central maintenance of criminal records shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act by the agency designated under subsection (a) of this Article.

Payment of Fine
188.
(a) If the sentence in a judgment delivered by the court against the defendant after conviction is a fine, that person must pay that fine to the Maldives Inland Revenue Authority within the period specified in the judgment. The court that heard and delivered the judgment must prepare and immediately give the defendant a document indicating that a fine has been imposed. That document must include the following information.
(1) Information identifying the convict;
(2) The full name of the convict's father or mother;
(3) The convict's age or date of birth;
(4) The proven offense;
(5) The manner and amount of the fine to be paid;
(6) The court that delivered the judgment and the case number;
(7) The date the judgment was delivered.
(b) A true copy of the document indicating that a fine has been imposed, as specified in subsection (a) of this Article, must be sent to the institution that enforces sentences, the Maldives Inland Revenue Authority, and the agency designated to centrally maintain criminal records.
(c) If the fine specified in subsection (a) of this Article is not paid as specified in this Article, that money shall be collected for the state according to the procedure followed by the relevant state authority for collecting money owed to the state when it is not paid.

Notification of Proven Debt and Payment of Debt
189.
(a) If it is decided at the conclusion of a criminal case and the delivery of judgment to award compensation for damages to the party harmed by that crime, such compensation for damages is a debt that the person convicted of the crime must pay to that party. They must pay off that debt as stated in the judgment.
(b) The debt mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article must be paid to the first instance court with jurisdiction to hear civil cases.
(c) The court must give a document indicating that a debt has been proven upon the conclusion of the case as mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article to the person convicted of the crime and to the person to whom the debt is owed. That document must include the following information.
(1) Information identifying the person convicted of the crime;
(2) The age or date of birth of the person convicted of the crime;
(3) The total amount to be paid as compensation for damages;
(4) The court that delivered the judgment and the case number;
(5) The date the judgment was delivered;
(6) The party to whom the debt is owed.

Maintaining Debt Information
190.
(a) A true copy of the document specified in Article 189(c) of this Act must be sent to the central agency that maintains debt information. And for the purpose of centrally maintaining debt information, a copy of that document must be sent to the finance section of the first instance court with jurisdiction to hear civil cases.
(b) When the debtor pays the debt to the court mentioned in Article 189(b) of this Act, that money must be delivered to the creditor as soon as possible. And to centrally maintain debt information, the agency specified in subsection (a) of this Article must be informed in writing as soon as possible that the debt has been paid off.

Release from Custody in Case of Non-Conviction
191.
When a court delivers a judgment that the defendant is not guilty of the crime, if that person is in custody, the court must immediately order the institution where that person is held in custody to release them. And if that person is a person whose passport or other official travel document has been seized, the court must immediately order the institution that has seized that item to release it.

CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT
CONFISCATION OF PROPERTY AND MONEY OBTAINED THROUGH CRIME BY THE STATE

Confiscation of Property and Money Obtained Through Crime by the State
192.
In a situation where it is proven to the court that the defendant has obtained any property or money as a result of the crime they committed, if a law specifies that that property and money shall be confiscated by the state, the court must order that to be done. And if it is proven to the court that additional property and money have been obtained using that property and money, the court must also order that money and property to be confiscated by the state.

Confiscation of Property and Items Not Being Part of the Punishment
193.
In a situation where it is proven to the court that the defendant has obtained any property or money as a result of the crime they committed, an order made by the court to confiscate that property and money by the state is not a matter included within the punishment determined for that crime.

Later Found Property or Money
194.
The court has the discretion to issue an additional order or to amend a previously made order to include later found property or money among the property and money specified in the previously made order, based on a submission by the state, after the court has ordered the confiscation of property and money obtained through crime by the state.

Confiscation of Other Property or Money by the State in Place of Property or Money Ordered to be Confiscated
195.
If one of the following occurs due to an act or omission of the defendant, the state has the discretion to confiscate property or money of equal value in place of the property or money the court has ordered to be confiscated by the state.
(a) That property or money has been sold or given to a third party;
(b) That property or money has been taken to a place where the state's authority does not extend;
(c) The value of that property or money has decreased to an unreasonable extent;
(d) That property or money has been mixed with other property or money in a way that it cannot be easily separated.

Existence of a Third Party's Right
196.
Unless a law specifies otherwise, if a third party has a right in the property and money obtained through crime which the court has ordered to be confiscated by the state, that party has the right to apply to the relevant court to obtain that right.

Enforcement of the Order to Confiscate Property and Money by the State
197.
In connection with an order made by the court to confiscate property and money obtained through crime by the state, a party designated by the state may do the following.
(a) Seize the property and money from among the property and money obtained through crime which the court has ordered to be confiscated by the state;
(b) Conduct the necessary searches and take the necessary actions to find and identify the property and money from among the property and money obtained through crime which the court has ordered to be confiscated by the state, in a manner acceptable to the court;
(c) When confiscating property and money obtained through crime by the state, if a court order or any law makes it mandatory to act in a certain way regarding the right of a third party, to act in that way.

CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE
APPEAL

Submitting an Appeal
198.
(a) Unless otherwise specified in this Act or in a law defining criminal offenses, the following decisions made by a court with jurisdiction to hear criminal cases may be appealed to the higher court designated for appealing that decision, in the manner specified in this Chapter.
(1) Judgments;
(2) Court orders;
(3) Pre-trial decisions.
(b) For the purpose of subsection (a)(3) of this Article, "pre-trial decisions" refers to decisions determining that a charge cannot be proceeded with on a civil standard, and decisions made in connection with pre-trial motions.
(c) The parties involved in the case to which the judgment, court order, or decision specified in subsection (a) of this Article relates have the right to appeal that decision as specified in subsection (a) of this Article.

Appeal Not Suspending Enforcement of Judgment
198-1
(a) The legal consequence or the enforcement of a judgment of a lower court shall not be suspended even if a request to appeal that decision has been submitted.
(b) If the defendant requests the suspension of the enforcement of a lower court's judgment, they must submit a separate request to the court to suspend the enforcement of that judgment.

Circumstances in Which an Appeal Can Be Made
198-2
(a) A decision from among the decisions specified in Article 198(a) of this Act can be submitted for appeal only if that decision is contrary to the Constitution, a law, or a Sharia principle, or if the court has incorrectly interpreted or applied the law in that decision, and this has affected the outcome of the case.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, if a matter that occurred contrary to the established procedure during the trial stage was noted by a party involved in the case while it was occurring in that court, but the court did not consider it when deciding the case, and if a party to the case believes that that matter directly affected the outcome of the case, this Article does not prevent the appeal of that case to a higher court.

Time Limits for Appealing to the High Court
198-3
(a) A judgment made by a lower court under Article 198(a)(1) of this Act can be submitted for appeal to the High Court within a maximum of 60 (sixty) days from the date of that judgment.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, if the report on the outcome of the trial has not been handed over within that period, the period for appeal shall begin to be counted from the date the report on the outcome of the trial is handed over.
(c) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of this Article, this Article does not prevent an appeal based on the summary of the report on the outcome of the trial.
(d) If the report on the outcome of the trial has not been handed over by the expiry of the period specified in subsection (a) of this Article for appealing, the appealing party must inform the High Court of this in writing before the expiry of that period.
(e) If a case has not been appealed by the expiry of the period specified in subsection (a) of this Article for appealing due to a reason beyond one's control, and if the appealing party proves this, and if the appeal is submitted within 6 (six) months from the date of the lower court's decision, it may be appealed to the High Court.
(f) A court order or a court decision specified in Article 198(a)(2) or (3) of this Act may be appealed within a maximum of 10 (ten) days from the date of issuance of that order or the making of that decision.
(g) Notwithstanding what is stated in subsection (f) of this Article, if a court order or a court decision specified in Article 198(a)(2) or (3) of this Act is being appealed by the state, that order must be appealed within 10 (ten) official working days from the date of its issuance.
(h) The administrative matters of a case submitted under subsection (f) or (g) of this Article must be completed, and a decision must be made on registering the case within 48 (forty-eight) hours of the case being received by the court.
(i) Upon the appeal of a court order or a court decision in accordance with subsection (f) or (g) of this Article, the High Court must make a decision on that order or decision within a maximum of 14 (fourteen) days from the date of such appeal.
(j) The 14 (fourteen) day period mentioned in subsection (i) of this Article shall be counted from the date the case is registered. And that period shall be counted including official holidays.

Time Limits for Appealing to the Supreme Court
198-4
(a) A judgment made by the High Court under Article 198(a)(1) of this Act can be submitted for appeal to the Supreme Court within a maximum of 60 (sixty) days from the date of that judgment.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, if the report on the outcome of the trial has not been handed over within that period, the period for appeal shall begin to be counted from the date the report on the outcome of the trial is handed over.
(c) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of this Article, this Article does not prevent an appeal based on the summary of the report on the outcome of the trial.
(d) If the report on the outcome of the trial has not been handed over by the expiry of the period specified in subsection (a) of this Article for appealing, the appealing party must inform the Supreme Court of this in writing before the expiry of that period.
(e) If a case has not been appealed by the expiry of the period specified in subsection (a) of this Article for appealing due to a reason beyond one's control, and if the appealing party proves this, and if the appeal is submitted within 6 (six) months from the date of the lower court's decision, that case may be appealed in the Supreme Court.
(f) A court order or a court decision specified in Article 198(a)(2) or (3) of this Act may be appealed within a maximum of 10 (ten) days from the date of issuance of that order or the making of that decision.
(g) Notwithstanding what is stated in subsection (f) of this Article, if a court order or a court decision specified in Article 198(a)(2) or (3) of this Act is being appealed by the state, it must be appealed within 7 (seven) official working days from the date of issuance of the order or decision.
(h) The administrative matters of a case submitted under subsection (f) or (g) of this Article must be completed, and a decision must be made on registering the case within a maximum of 48 (forty-eight) hours of the case being received by the court.
(i) Upon the appeal of a court order or a court decision in accordance with subsection (f) or (g) of this Article, the Supreme Court must make a decision on that order or decision within a maximum of 14 (fourteen) days.
(j) The 14 (fourteen) day period mentioned in subsection (i) of this Article shall be counted from the date the case is registered. And that period shall be counted including official holidays.

Submitting an Appeal
198-5
(a) An appeal of a case to a court shall be submitted to the appellate court through a form designated for that purpose by the appellate court.
(b) The submission specified in subsection (a) of this Article must state the points on which the appeal is based, its legal reasons, and whether the party is requesting the revocation or amendment of the judgment or decision. And the name of the court that heard the case, the parties involved in the case, and the date the judgment was delivered must be stated.
(c) It is not mandatory to submit a copy of the report on the outcome of the trial with the submission to appeal.
(d) The appeal must be submitted before the expiry of the period for appeal specified in this Chapter.

Accepting an Appeal
198-6
(a) Upon the submission of a case for appeal under Article 198-5(a) of this Act, the court to which the appeal has been submitted must make a decision on accepting the appeal of that case within a maximum of 14 (fourteen) days.
(b) Unless the court decides otherwise, a decision on accepting an appeal of a case shall be made without a hearing.
(c) The decision made on the appeal of a case under subsection (b) of this Article must be communicated in writing to the appealing party by the registrar of the court to which the appeal has been submitted.
(d) If the decision made under subsection (a) of this Article is not to accept the appeal, the appealing party has the right to submit a request to that court to review that decision within a maximum of 14 (fourteen) days from the date of that decision.
(e) In deciding on the registrar's decision by a panel of judges under subsection (d) of this Article, it is not mandatory to hold a hearing of that case. However, this Article does not prevent the holding of such a hearing if the judges believe that a fair decision on appealing that case cannot be made without holding a hearing and obtaining a statement from the appealing party and the respondent.
(f) If a hearing is to be held on accepting an appeal, all parties involved in the case must be informed of this. And the time and date scheduled for the hearing must be informed.
(g) If a hearing is held under subsection (f) of this Article, the panel of judges must decide on accepting the appeal within a maximum of 14 (fourteen) days after that hearing.
(h) If the request to review the registrar's decision has been submitted to the High Court under subsection (d) of this Article, and if, after the stage specified in subsection (g) of this Article, the High Court's panel of judges decides not to accept the appeal, the appealing party has the right to submit an appeal of that decision to the Supreme Court within 30 (thirty) days from the date of that decision.
(i) If the court decides to accept the appeal, when proceeding with the appeal case, in addition to determining the points on which the appealing party and the respondent should speak at the trial hearing, the court may set additional conditions on how that hearing will proceed.
(j) After the court has decided to accept the appeal under subsection (i) of this Article, any amendment to the appeal form can be made only after obtaining the permission of the court.

Appealing a Judgment of Not Guilty
199.
(a) The Prosecutor General has the discretion to appeal a judgment made by the court hearing the case that the defendant is not guilty or that the defendant does not bear criminal responsibility.
(b) When appealing under subsection (a) of this Article, if the crime the person charged with the crime is suspected of is a serious criminal offense as specified in Article 22 of this Act, and if the following circumstances exist, the Prosecutor General has the discretion to submit a request to the High Court for one of the following orders.
(1) If it is believed, based on reasonable grounds, that one of the circumstances specified in subsection (c)(1) or (c)(3) of this Article may arise if they are released from detention, to submit a request for an order to detain them until the conclusion of the appeal stage of that case;
(2) If it is believed, based on reasonable grounds, that the circumstance specified in subsection (c)(2) of this Article may arise if they are not prohibited from leaving, to submit a request for an order to prohibit them from leaving until the conclusion of the appeal stage of that case.
(c) The High Court shall decide to keep a person in detention in connection with a submission made under subsection (b)(1) of this Article only if there is sufficient evidence to suspect that they committed the crime they were suspected of, and if it is believed that one of the following circumstances may arise if they are released from detention.
(1) It is believed that they may attempt to conceal the evidence of the case they were suspected of or to influence a witness in that case; or
(2) It is believed that they may abscond; or
(3) It is believed that if they are released from detention, it may pose a danger to public safety.
(d) In deciding on a submission made under subsection (b)(2) of this Article, if there is not sufficient evidence to suspect that the person to whom the submission relates committed the crime, and if none of the reasons specified in subsection (c)(1) or (c)(3) of this Article exist, the court shall not issue an order to detain the defendant.
(e) If the court decides to keep a person in detention in connection with a submission made by the Prosecutor General under subsection (b)(1) of this Article, in accordance with subsection (c) of this Article, the person to whom the submission relates has the discretion to request that court for release on bail in accordance with Article 201-1 of this Act.
(f) The High Court shall decide to prohibit a person from leaving in connection with a submission made under subsection (b)(2) of this Article only if the judge believes that there is evidence that they may abscond.
(g) In issuing an order to prohibit a person from leaving under subsection (b)(2) of this Article, the judge must act in accordance with the procedure specified in Article 75 of this Act.

Appealing a Judgment of Guilty
200.
A judgment made by a lower court that a person is guilty of a crime may be submitted for appeal by the defendant.

Appealing the Determined Sentence
201.
If it is found that the court hearing the case has determined the sentence contrary to the sentencing procedure, the state and the defendant have the discretion to appeal the sentence determined by the court that heard the case.

Release on Bail Pending Appeal
201-1
(a) In the following circumstances, a person on whom a lower court has delivered a judgment of guilty of a criminal offense has the right to submit a request to the court where the appeal is filed for release on bail.
(1) They have been convicted of the crime and sentenced to imprisonment for that crime; and
(2) They have appealed the judgment of the lower court convicting them or the sentence determined for that crime.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, if they are a person who has been convicted by the court of committing a criminal offense specified in Article 63 of this Act and sentenced to imprisonment, they cannot be released on bail during the appeal stage under this Article.
(c) A person who has been convicted of a crime can be released on bail under this Article only if they prove the following to the court.
(1) That the appeal they have submitted is an appeal based on reasonable grounds;
(2) That they will act in accordance with the conditions set when they are released on bail;
(3) That there is no public interest to be achieved by keeping them in further detention.
(d) If a person requesting release on bail under this Article is a party who has appealed only the sentence determined against them, they must, in addition to the matters specified in subsection (c) of this Article, prove to the court that keeping them in detention would cause them to bear an undue burden.
(e) If a person convicted of a criminal offense requests the court for release on bail pending the conclusion of the appeal under subsection (a) of this Article, the court must give notice to the prosecuting party informing them that such a request has been made.
(f) In releasing on bail under this Article, the court shall act under the procedures specified in Chapter Seven of this Act.

Appealing an Order to Confiscate Property and Money by the State
202.
The relevant parties have the right to appeal an order made by the court to confiscate property and money obtained through crime by the state in the manner specified in Chapter Twenty-Eight of this Act.

CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE-1
SPECIAL PROCEDURES FOR SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES

Application of Special Procedures in a State of Emergency or a Disaster
203-1.
(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act or any other law, if a state of emergency or a state of disaster is declared under the authority of the Constitution or a law, and if, due to the continuation of that state, and considering the level of safety in the island and region where that state has been declared, or the extent to which activities have been prohibited in that state, the procedures specified in a law or in a regulation empowered by a law cannot be followed, the special procedures specified in this Chapter may be followed in the manner specified in this Chapter.
(b) In accordance with subsection (a) of this Article, the time limits for criminal cases shall be handled in accordance with the following procedure.
(1) In cases for which time limits for completing the investigation and filing charges are specified in Article 94 of this Act, if the Prosecutor General determines, based on reasons, that there are major obstacles to completing the investigation and filing charges, the Prosecutor General has an additional period of 60 (sixty) days to complete the investigation and file charges in those cases.
(2) All motions to be submitted before the start of the trial, as specified in Article 118 of this Act, must be submitted 30 (thirty) days before the start of the trial. And other time limits specified in this Article may be determined as decided by the judge hearing the case.
(3) In cases where a charge cannot be filed after the expiry of a period of 8 (eight) years from the time the crime was committed, for crimes included in felonies, and in cases where a charge cannot be filed after the expiry of a period of 3 (three) years from the time the crime was committed, for crimes included in misdemeanors, as per Article 61 of Act No. 9/2014 (Maldives Penal Code), if the charge has not been filed by the expiry of that period, the Prosecutor General has a period not exceeding 30 (thirty) days from the date of expiry of that period to file that charge.
(4) Under Article 17 of Act No. 17/2010 (Prohibition of Intimidation and Possession of Dangerous Weapons and Sharp Objects Act), the Prosecutor General must file a charge against a person within a maximum of 60 (sixty) days. And the court must deliver a judgment within a maximum of 60 (sixty) days from the date the charge is filed. And if it becomes necessary to extend that period, the period may be extended for the shortest possible period for that purpose.
(5) Under Article 21 of Act No. 17/2010 (Prohibition of Intimidation and Possession of Dangerous Weapons and Sharp Objects Act), the period for appealing a case in each higher court is 30 (thirty) days, excluding official holidays, from the date of receipt of the written judgment of that case.
(6) In accordance with Articles 28-1(a) and (b) of Act No. 32/2015 (Prevention of Terrorism Act), the investigation of that case must be completed and submitted to the Prosecutor General within 60 (sixty) days. And the Prosecutor General must file a charge within 45 (forty-five) days of the case being submitted to the Prosecutor General.
(7) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Article, in cases of persons who have been arrested, or arrested and then released from detention, or in any other cases of persons, for which specific time limits for completing the investigation and filing charges have been set, if the Prosecutor General determines, based on reasons, that there are major obstacles to completing the investigation and filing charges, the Prosecutor General has the discretion to decide to complete the investigation and file charges within a period determined by the Prosecutor General.
(8) Except for cases for which a specific period for appealing in court is specified in another subsection of this Article, the period for appealing in other cases is 30 (thirty) days, excluding official holidays, from the date of receipt of the written judgment of that case.
(c) When the special procedures specified in this Chapter are applied, the rights of all persons on whom the criminal justice system is being administered must be afforded to those persons through the procedure specified in this Chapter.
(d) In a situation specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the Department of Judicial Administration shall decide to follow the procedures specified in this Chapter in conducting trials and inform the courts of this.
(e) The decision of the Prosecutor General to follow the procedures mentioned in this Chapter in investigating, filing charges, and conducting trials, and the decision of the Department of Judicial Administration, must be published in the Government Gazette.
(f) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act or any other law, in a situation specified in subsection (a) of this Article, priority shall be given to following the procedures specified in this Chapter.

Special Procedures Regarding Arrest and Detention
203-2.
(a) With the existence of a situation specified in Article 203-1(a) of this Act, and when considering the matters to be further considered in that situation as specified in that Article, if a person arrested under this Act or a person taken into police custody without being arrested cannot be brought to a police station, that person may be taken to a place designated by the Minister of Home Affairs, with the permission of an officer of the rank of Sub-Inspector of Police or higher.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, even in the situation specified in that Article, other legal procedures specified in this Act regarding arrest and detention must be fulfilled.
(c) With the existence of a situation specified in Article 203-1(a) of this Act, and when considering the matters to be further considered in that situation as specified in that Article, if a person arrested under this Act cannot be detained in a jail as specified in Article 52(a) of this Act, that person may be detained in a special place designated and made public by the Minister of Home Affairs.

Issuing Court Orders in Special Circumstances
203-3.
(a) If a situation from among the situations specified in Article 203-1(a) of this Act arises, the court has the discretion to send the original of the court orders specified in Article 204 of this Act and other orders issued by the court under this Act to the party that requested the order via an electronic medium, instead of sending the original of the orders to the party that requested them.
(b) If a situation from among the situations specified in Article 203-1(a) of this Act arises, the courts have the discretion to temporarily suspend the application of the procedures specified in Articles 204(c) and (d) of this Act and to continue issuing court orders in accordance with procedures determined by the Chief Judge of the court or the Chief Judge.

Obtaining the Assistance of a Legal Counsel in Special Circumstances
203-4.
(a) With the existence of a situation specified in Article 203-1(a) of this Act, and when considering the matters to be further considered in that situation as specified in that Article, if arrangements for a person in police custody or under arrest on suspicion of a crime to meet with their legal counsel in the usual manner cannot be made, the party that has arrested them must make arrangements for them to communicate with their counsel via audio and video conferencing.
(b) In a manner specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the party that has arrested a person must take all necessary measures to ensure that the communication between the person in custody and their counsel regarding the case, conducted via audio and video conferencing, is a privileged communication that cannot be heard by any other third party.

PART SEVEN
MISCELLANEOUS

CHAPTER THIRTY
GENERAL PROVISIONS

Procedure for Issuing Court Orders
204.
(a) For matters that this Act states cannot be done by law enforcement agencies without obtaining a court order, a regulation for issuing that order, including the following principles, shall be made and made public under this Act.
(1) To make an arrangement that gives the power to issue a court order to every judge of every court with jurisdiction to hear or appeal a criminal case, in a manner not specific to a particular judge or judges of that court, in circumstances where a court order needs to be issued; and in this regard, if a case is being heard by a specific judge or judges in a court with jurisdiction, the court order shall be issued by that judge or those judges;
(2) To determine the day of the week on which each judge must be dedicated to issuing court orders;
(3) To have a system where the same judge does not issue court orders on two consecutive days;
(4) To have a system where court orders are issued on a rotational basis by judges;
(5) To consider a court order issued by a judge as a court order issued by the court to which that judge belongs;
(6) To have a system where the issuance of a court order is a matter where officers of a law enforcement agency go to the place where a judge is, submit the relevant document, and a decision on issuing or not issuing that order is made at that time.
(b) The regulation that must be made under subsection (a) of this Article shall be formulated by the Supreme Court.
(c) If a court has only one judge, the principles mentioned in subsections (a)(2), (a)(3), and (a)(4) of this Article shall not apply to that court.
(d) If a court has more than one judge, the judge who issued an arrest warrant shall not participate in hearing the case to determine the matter of detention of a person arrested in connection with that warrant.

Procedure for Dealing with Minors or Persons with Mental or Physical Disabilities
205.
(a) If a law enforcement authority believes or has received information that a person suspected of committing a criminal offense is a minor, a person with a mental disability, a person with a significant hearing, sight, or speech impairment, or an illiterate person, unless there is evidence to the contrary, they shall be treated as a person with such a characteristic.
(b) If a person suspected of a criminal offense is a minor or a person with a mental disability, and if the child's guardian or a person who can defend the child's interests, or the person in charge of the person with a mental disability or a person who can defend their interests needs to be summoned by the law enforcement authority, they must be informed orally and in writing that the purpose of their appearance is for the following.
(1) To advise the minor or the person with a mental disability;
(2) To ensure that the minor or the person with a mental disability is being treated fairly and in accordance with the law;
(3) To assist the minor or the person with a mental disability in saying what they want to say, and to assist in communicating with the child or that person.
(c) If a guardian of a minor or a person who can defend the child's interests, or the person in charge of a person with a mental disability or a person who can defend their interests requests the assistance of a legal counsel for that child or that person under this Act, it shall be considered as that child or that person requesting the assistance of a legal counsel.
(d) Before deciding on the arrest or detention of a minor or a person with a mental disability, the person in charge of that child or that person or the person who can defend the interests of that child or that person must be given the opportunity to submit their opinion on the best course of action for that person, considering the child's or person's condition, the adverse effects that their arrest or detention may have, and the matter.

Rights of Persons with Mental or Physical Disabilities
206.
(a) At the investigation stage and at all stages of the trial, persons who cannot defend their own interests due to a mental or physical disability shall be treated as follows.
(1) They shall be questioned or have their statement taken or otherwise be dealt with in the investigation in the presence of the person in charge of them or a person who can defend their interests.
(2) It is the responsibility of the investigating party to ensure that the suspicions against that person, the questions asked of them in the investigation, the statements they have given, and other documents are understood by that person as presented.
(3) If they are arrested or detained, their mental and physical condition must be considered. And the party arresting or detaining them must make arrangements for them to do the necessary things that are difficult for them to do on their own will while they are arrested or detained.
(4) In conducting any criminal procedure against such a person, an undue burden that is not appropriate to their mental or physical condition shall not be placed on them.
(5) The party detaining them must arrange matters in such a way that they will not be harmed or abused by other persons in detention.
(6) If they are a person with a visual impairment or an illiterate person, before they are made to sign a statement they have given, that statement must be read to them by a person not involved in the investigation or trial of that case.
(7) If they are a person with a hearing impairment or a mute person, to assist them in the investigation or trial against them, a person who knows how to communicate with such a person must be provided by the investigating party or the court as soon as possible.
(b) A person with a mental disability shall be searched in the presence of the person in charge of them or a person who can defend their interests. However, if there is no person who can defend the interests of such a person, this Article does not prevent the search of such a person in their absence if the officer of the investigating party believes that searching them is absolutely necessary considering all the circumstances of the case, provided that the matters in subsection (c) of this Article are fulfilled.
(c) A person with a mental disability shall be searched in the absence of a person who can defend their interests under subsection (b) of this Article only after obtaining the permission of a superior of the rank of Sub-Inspector of Police or higher, if a Maldives Police Service officer, or the head of the relevant department of that agency, if an officer of another agency.
(d) Each time a person is searched under subsection (c) of this Article, the reason for doing so must be stated and recorded in writing. And that document must have the signature of the officer who searched the person and the superior who gave permission for it.

Requesting a Writ of Habeas Corpus
207.
(a) A request for a writ of habeas corpus may be submitted by a person or by another party on their behalf, requesting their release from arrest, claiming that they have been arrested unlawfully.
(b) When submitting a request for a writ of habeas corpus under subsection (a) of this Article, a statement containing the following information must be submitted.
(1) The date of arrest of the arrested person and the place where they are detained;
(2) The party that arrested the arrested person;
(3) The reasons believed or considered to be the cause of the arrest of the arrested person.
(c) The statement specified in subsection (b) of this Article must be a true statement given and signed by the arrested person.
(d) Notwithstanding subsection (c) of this Article, if it can be proven to the court that the arrested person cannot give the statement specified in subsection (b) of this Article themselves due to their being in arrest, this Article does not prevent another person from giving that statement on their behalf.
(e) If a case is submitted to the court under subsection (a) of this Article concerning a person who is detained under a court order, a copy of that order must also be submitted with the case submitted to the court under that Article.
(f) The copy of the order specified in subsection (e) of this Article must be a copy that includes the signature and/or seal of the party that issued the arrest order.
(g) If a copy of the order specified in subsection (e) of this Article has not been provided to the arrested person by the arresting party despite a request, a statement must be submitted to the court stating that a request for a copy of the order was made and that the arresting party has refused to provide a copy of the order.

Ordering the Production of the Arrested Person
208.
(a) Upon a request for a writ of habeas corpus under Article 207 of this Act, the court must order the party that arrested the person to whom the case relates to produce them in court for the court to determine whether they were arrested in accordance with the law or not.
(b) It is mandatory for the party that arrested a person to produce them in court in accordance with an order made by the court under subsection (a) of this Article.
(c) If the arrested person is not produced in court in accordance with an order made by the court under subsection (a) of this Article, the arresting party shall be considered to have acted in contempt of court, and the court has the power to order that party to appear in court and to act against that party according to the procedure established for dealing with parties who act in contempt of court.

Determining Whether the Detention is in Accordance with the Law
209.
(a) When a person in arrest is produced in court in accordance with an order made by the court under Article 208 of this Act, it is the party that arrested them that must prove that they were arrested in accordance with the law.
(b) If, in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article, the party that arrested a person in arrest cannot prove that they were arrested in accordance with the law, the court must order their release from arrest.
(c) If, in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article, the party that arrested a person in arrest proves that they were arrested in accordance with the law, the court must determine that they were arrested in accordance with the law.

Seeking Compensation for Damages
210.
(a) If a court determines that a person was arrested or detained unlawfully, they have the right to submit a case to court requesting that compensation for the damages they suffered be awarded to them from the party that detained them.
(b) A request for compensation for damages specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be submitted as a civil case to a court with jurisdiction to hear such cases.

Making Regulations
211.
(a) To achieve the purpose of this Act, regulations regarding the following matters shall be made by the following parties.
(1) Regulations regarding matters related to investigation under this Act shall be made by law enforcement agencies.
(2) Regulations that need to be made regarding matters related to filing charges and prosecution under this Act shall be made by the Prosecutor General.
(3) Regulations that need to be made regarding trial under this Act shall be made by the Supreme Court.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a)(3) of this Article, this Article does not prevent a particular court from making a regulation that needs to be made under the power granted to the courts by the Constitution to make regulations regarding the administrative functioning of the courts.
(c) The regulations specified in subsection (a) of this Article must be made and completed within 3 (three) months from the date of commencement of this Act.

Commencement of the Act
212.
(a) This Act shall come into force from 2 July 2017.
(b) Upon the commencement of this Act, all general criminal procedure principles that were in effect before the commencement of this Act are hereby repealed.
(c) Except in a situation where a special law defining criminal offenses has prescribed special procedures for doing a particular thing, after the commencement of this Act, the following matters shall be handled in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the regulations made under this Act.
(1) In applying for a court order in a situation where a court order is required, and in the issuance and enforcement of that order by the court;
(2) In stopping, detaining, arresting, and holding persons in custody;
(3) In conducting the investigation of a criminal case;
(4) In filing a charge in a criminal case, or in dropping or withdrawing a charge;
(5) In conducting the trial of a criminal case;
(6) In enforcing the judgment of a criminal case;
(7) In relation to a general criminal procedure specified in this Act.

Definitions
213.
Unless otherwise specified in this Act, the following words and phrases are given the meanings given below to those words and phrases.
(a) "Another law" refers to a special law defining criminal offenses passed by the People's Majlis.
(b) "Public places" refers to roads, plots, land, public squares, parks that are always open for everyone to use, and land, plots, and buildings that are not considered private places. Shops, cafes, restaurants, teashops, and similar places that are open to the public for entry and exit shall also be included in the meaning of a public place when it is suspected, based on reasonable cause, that a crime has occurred or is occurring in such a place.
(c) "Private places" refers to plots, houses, land, and buildings registered in a person's name, houses and households used for residence, offices, and plots, buildings, halls, and squares that have been given for the use of a specific group by a specific institution under a specific procedure.
(d) "Court order" refers to a permission issued by a judge in accordance with this Act to do something that must be done by obtaining a court order. Or to an order made by a judge.
(e) "Judge" refers to the judges of the lower courts with jurisdiction to hear criminal cases, the High Court of the Maldives, and the Supreme Court of the Maldives.
(f) "High Court" refers to the High Court of the Maldives.
(g) "Supreme Court" refers to the Supreme Court of the Maldives.
(h) "Taking a sample" refers to taking a sample from a person's blood, hair, from under their nails, from their sweat, or from any other bodily fluid or moisture, including from inside and outside the body.
(i) "DNA" or "Deoxyribonucleic acid" refers to the genetic language upon which the hereditary traits, lineage, and the functions of organs are based, which is stored in a very complete sequence like a framework in the nucleus of the most basic unit or cell contained in the body of living things. This genetic blueprint is different for everyone except for identical twins.
(j) "Police station" refers to any institution or center established and operated to provide police services.
(k) "Criminal offense" refers to any offense defined as a criminal offense under the law of the Maldives.
(l) "Special law defining a criminal offense" refers to laws defining criminal offenses from among the laws passed by the People's Majlis, and including laws containing articles related to criminal offenses in a law related to a specific field or matter.
(m) "Prosecutor General" refers to the person specified in Article 220 of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives.
(n) "Crime scene" refers to any place where there is an event, physical evidence, or an object related to a crime at the time the crime occurs.
(o) "Surveillance" refers to listening to people's communications, monitoring people's movements, and observing and watching people and places using electronic devices such as cameras, microphones, tape recorders, and wiretaps, to find evidence that a criminal offense has been committed, is being committed, or is about to be committed, or to gather intelligence on a suspected criminal activity.
(p) "Diplomatic privilege" refers to the privilege granted by the Maldivian state to a person because they are a dignitary of a foreign state, an ambassador of a foreign country, a representative of an international organization that has been granted diplomatic privilege under an international treaty, or a person who should receive privilege under an international treaty.
(q) "Law of evidence" refers to Act No. 24/76 (Law of Evidence) as long as it is in effect, and includes laws passed by the People's Majlis that state the standards and procedures for dealing with evidence in criminal cases, and the regulations made under those laws.
(r) "Stopping" refers to the stopping of a person for questioning or for a search, not amounting to an arrest, detention, or taking into custody. In that situation, it is not mandatory to consider their freedom as having come to an end, to give a legal warning, or to provide the assistance of a counsel.
(s)
(1) "Taking into custody" refers to the situation of a person in either of the following two circumstances.
i. The act of spending 4 (four) hours at a place after being brought to or summoned to a police station for questioning on suspicion of a crime, not amounting to an arrest or detention; or
ii. The state of being in the custody of the police in arrest or detention after being arrested or detained.
(2) A person who appears at a police station for questioning not on suspicion of a crime, or to clarify information, or to obtain testimony, shall not be considered to be in police custody for the purpose of this Article. In the case of being taken into custody, a legal warning will be given and the assistance of a counsel will be provided.
(t)
(1) "Arrest" refers to bringing a person's freedom to a halt and bringing them into police custody, with the giving of the legal warning specified in Article 44 of this Act.
(2) A person shall remain in police arrest until they are transferred to police detention. A person in police arrest shall be transferred to police detention upon the determination of the head of the department investigating their case to transfer them to detention, or upon an order from a judge to keep them in detention.
(3) While a person is under arrest, they have the rights specified in the legal warning mentioned in Article 44 of this Act.
(u) "Detention" refers to the situation where a person is under police custody after being arrested. During the period of detention, they shall be held in a custodial jail under the custody of the police. While in detention, the person in detention has the rights specified in the legal warning mentioned in Article 44 of this Act.
(v) "Owner" refers, in relation to a private place, to the owner of that place. In relation to a rented place, to the party that has rented the place. For a specific unit or part of a shared building, to the owner of that unit or part. And in a situation where none of those parties are at any of those places, or in any other situation, it includes the person residing in or in charge of that place at that time.
(w) "Person who protects interests" refers to any person over the age of 18 (eighteen) whom the person being questioned in connection with a criminal offense or the person suspected of the crime designates as a person who can protect their interests.
