Maldives Higher Education and Training Act
Chapter One

Introduction

Introduction and Name
1.
(a) This is an Act to formulate a system for providing quality higher education and training in the Maldives, to advance the services provided by higher education and training centers in a sustainable manner, to stipulate the principles for the provision of such services, and to state other principles related to the development and advancement of higher education and training.

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Maldives Higher Education and Training Act".

Purpose
2. The main purposes of this Act are stated below.

(a) To establish a system of higher education and training in the Maldives that provides opportunities for all citizens with equality;

(b) To make the higher education and training services provided in the Maldives quality services, and to make them services that are provided sustainably at a specified standard;

(c) To state the principles regarding the registration and operation of higher education and training institutions in the Maldives;

(d) To make higher education service providers in the Maldives autonomous bodies with the full freedom and power to decide their own affairs, and to make them accountable parties;

(e) To ensure that parties providing higher education and training services in the Maldives adhere to the standards mandated by this Act and the regulations made under this Act;

(f) To determine the rights and responsibilities of higher education and training providers, their employees, and students;

(g) To establish a separate legal entity to ensure the quality of higher education provided in the Maldives and to assess the quality of certificates issued by higher education and training institutions;

(h) To formulate a national system for vocational education and training in the Maldives, and to establish a separate government legal entity to oversee and implement matters of technical and vocational skills education and training;

(i) To state other principles related to the development and advancement of the higher education and training sector.

Determining Higher Education Policies
3.
(a) The policies for providing higher education and training in the Maldives shall be formulated by the Minister.

(b) The departments operating under the Ministry shall fulfill their responsibilities in accordance with the policies determined by the Minister under subsection (a) of this Article.

Responsibilities of the Ministry
4. The main responsibilities of the Ministry shall include the following.

(a) To formulate policies for providing higher education and training in the Maldives and to establish a system for providing higher education and training;

(b) To create and implement principles for maintaining the quality of the higher education and training system;

(c) To ensure the higher education and training system of the Maldives is a system that facilitates opportunities for education in a wide range of fields;

(d) To determine the vocational skills required for jobs and to formulate policies for such training programs;

(e) To work in collaboration with educational institutions to develop the higher education and training sector of the Maldives and to increase the number of students who successfully complete their education;

(f) To determine the higher education and training fields needed for the development of the Maldives and to work towards providing opportunities to pursue education in those fields;

(g) To formulate a policy for providing financial assistance to students to pursue higher education and training, and to create and implement the principles thereof;

(h) To register higher education and training institutions, to compile and maintain a registry of such places, and to maintain relevant statistics;

(i) To ensure that higher education and training institutions established by an Act of law are registered and managed in accordance with laws and regulations;

(j) To determine policies regarding the delivery of face-to-face programs, distance learning programs, and blended learning programs in the Maldives;

(k) To provide consultation and advice to relevant government authorities on matters related to higher education and training;

(l) To compile and maintain a registry of Maldivian students pursuing higher education in foreign countries;

(m) To create and implement all regulations required by the Ministry for the implementation and administration of this Act;

(n) To perform other responsibilities legally required in relation to the work of the Ministry.
Chapter Two

Maldives Qualifications Authority

Maldives Qualifications Authority
5.
(a) Upon the commencement of this Act, a separate government authority named the "Maldives Qualifications Authority" is hereby established to carry out all necessary work to ensure and assess the quality of higher education and to undertake the task of reviewing the quality of certificates issued by higher education and training institutions.

(b) The Minister shall be accountable to the People's Majlis on matters related to the Maldives Qualifications Authority.

(c) Upon the commencement of this Act, all property, funds, and resources under the ownership or custody of the Maldives Qualifications Authority that existed prior to the commencement of this Act, the budget allocated to that Authority in the state budget passed by the People's Majlis, and all rights and benefits granted to that Authority by law and under agreements, and all responsibilities to be fulfilled by that Authority by law and under agreements, are hereby transferred to the authority established under subsection (a) of this Article.

(d) Upon the commencement of this Act, all employees of the Maldives Qualifications Authority that existed prior to the commencement of this Act are hereby transferred to the authority established under subsection (a) of this Article from that moment forth.

Purpose of the Maldives Qualifications Authority
6. The purpose of the Maldives Qualifications Authority is to assess the quality of higher education and training services provided in the Maldives and to work towards maintaining the quality of certificates at a level consistent with national and international standards.

Responsibilities of the Maldives Qualifications Authority
7. The main responsibilities of the Maldives Qualifications Authority are as follows.

(a) To create and implement procedures for ensuring the quality of higher education and training programs conducted in the Maldives;

(b) To formulate, review, amend, and implement the National Qualifications Framework;

(c) To ensure that higher education and training programs conducted in the Maldives are designed in accordance with the standards and principles set by the Maldives Qualifications Authority;

(d) To formulate and implement procedures for authorizing, accrediting, and auditing higher education and training programs conducted in the Maldives;

(e) To formulate and implement principles related to determining the quality of certificates;

(f) To maintain a registry of certificates recognized by the Maldives Qualifications Authority and the individuals who have obtained them;

(g) To publicize the programs conducted by institutions in the Maldives and abroad that are recognized by the Maldives Qualifications Authority;

(h) To review the quality of higher education institutions and the lecturers in the programs conducted at those institutions;

(i) To obtain information from higher education institutions for the purpose of statistics and research;

(j) To raise public awareness regarding the work of the Maldives Qualifications Authority;

(k) If a fee is to be charged for services provided by the Maldives Qualifications Authority, to determine the procedure for charging that fee and to publicize it;

(l) To establish a system for submitting and receiving complaints at the Maldives Qualifications Authority;

(m) To seek the advice of the Ministry when determining all policies related to the work of the Maldives Qualifications Authority.

Powers of the Maldives Qualifications Authority
8. To fulfill its responsibilities, the Maldives Qualifications Authority is vested with the following powers.

(a) To form temporary committees required for the work of the Maldives Qualifications Authority, to determine the scope of work of those committees, and to formulate their rules of procedure;

(b) To conduct studies required for the work of the Maldives Qualifications Authority;

(c) To audit higher education institutions and the programs conducted in those institutions;

(d) To charge fees for services determined by the Authority among the services it provides.

Advisory Board of the Maldives Qualifications Authority
9.
(a) To achieve the purpose of the Maldives Qualifications Authority and to provide necessary advice in fulfilling the responsibilities of the Authority as stated in this Act, there shall be an Advisory Board appointed in accordance with this Act.

(b) The Advisory Board mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be composed of the following 7 (seven) members.
(1) The Chief Executive Officer of the Maldives Qualifications Authority;
(2) 1 (one) member appointed by the Minister from among the employees of the Ministry;
(3) 2 (two) members appointed from among experts in the field of higher education and training;
(4) 1 (one) member appointed from among the Vice-Chancellors of universities operating in the Maldives;
(5) 1 (one) member appointed from the technical and vocational sector;
(6) 1 (one) member appointed from the management of private colleges providing higher education in the Maldives.

(c) Members shall be appointed to and removed from the Advisory Board of the Maldives Qualifications Authority by the President of the Republic.

(d) The President of the Republic shall form the Advisory Board mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article within 30 (thirty) days from the date this Act comes into force.

(e) Each member appointed to the Advisory Board under this Article shall be appointed for 1 (one) term of 5 (five) years.

(f) The allowance for attending meetings of the Advisory Board of the Maldives Qualifications Authority shall be determined by the Minister responsible for the state's financial affairs, upon the advice of the Minister.

(g) The procedures for the administration of the Advisory Board of the Maldives Qualifications Authority, the conduct of its meetings, and its decisions shall be stated in the regulation made by the Maldives Qualifications Authority under this Act.

(h) The secretariat of the Advisory Board of the Maldives Qualifications Authority shall be maintained by the Authority.

Conditions for Advisory Board Members of the Maldives Qualifications Authority
10. With the exception of the Chief Executive Officer of the Maldives Qualifications Authority appointed in accordance with Article 13 of this Act, members of the Advisory Board of the Maldives Qualifications Authority must meet the following conditions.

(a) Be a Muslim;
(b) Be a citizen of the Maldives;
(c) Be at least 30 (thirty) years of age;
(d) Parties appointed under Article 9(b)(3), (5), and (6) of this Act must have 5 (five) years of experience in their respective fields;
(e) Not be a shareholder of a higher education institution.

Removal and Resignation of Advisory Board Members
11.
(a) If a member of the Advisory Board of the Maldives Qualifications Authority loses a characteristic required by this Act, they shall be removed from the board.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, if it appears that a board member is unable to fulfill their responsibilities before their term expires, or if they are found to have violated the code of conduct, the President of the Republic has the discretion to remove them from their position.

(c) If a member of the Advisory Board of the Maldives Qualifications Authority wishes to resign, they shall submit a written resignation to the President of the Republic, and upon receipt of the letter by the President, the member is deemed removed from the position.

Chairmanship of the Advisory Board of the Maldives Qualifications Authority
12.
(a) Meetings of the Advisory Board of the Maldives Qualifications Authority shall be chaired by the Chief Executive Officer of the Authority.

(b) The responsibilities of the chairperson of the Advisory Board of the Maldives Qualifications Authority are to organize and manage the work of the board and to preside over its meetings.

(c) In a situation where the Chief Executive Officer of the Authority is unable to perform a duty as the chairperson of the Advisory Board of the Maldives Qualifications Authority, the Chief Executive Officer shall assign that duty to a member from among the board members.

Chief Executive Officer of the Maldives Qualifications Authority
13.
(a) The head of the day-to-day operations of the Maldives Qualifications Authority, in accordance with this Act, is its Chief Executive Officer.

(b) The Chief Executive Officer of the Maldives Qualifications Authority shall be appointed and removed by the President of the Republic. The position is of a rank equivalent to that of a State Minister.

(c) The Chief Executive Officer of the Maldives Qualifications Authority must meet the following conditions:
(1) Be a Muslim;
(2) Be a citizen of the Maldives;
(3) Have obtained a Master's Degree;
(4) Have at least 10 (ten) years of experience in the field of work.

(d) Except for being accountable to the People's Majlis, the Maldives Qualifications Authority shall be represented in matters requiring representation by its Chief Executive Officer.

(e) The Chief Executive Officer shall be accountable to the Minister for matters related to their work.

(f) The person appointed as the Chief Executive Officer under this Article shall be appointed for 1 (one) term of 5 (five) years.

Removal and Resignation of the Chief Executive Officer
14.
(a) If the Chief Executive Officer of the Maldives Qualifications Authority loses a characteristic required by this Act, they shall be removed from the position.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, if it appears that the Chief Executive Officer of the Maldives Qualifications Authority is unable to fulfill their responsibilities before their term expires, or if they are found to have violated the code of conduct, the President of the Republic has the discretion to remove them from their position.

(c) If the Chief Executive Officer of the Maldives Qualifications Authority wishes to resign, they shall submit a written resignation to the President of the Republic, and upon receipt of the letter by the President, they are deemed removed from the position.

Finances of the Maldives Qualifications Authority
15.
(a) The funds required for the Maldives Qualifications Authority to fully carry out its responsibilities shall be included in the annual state budget passed by the People's Majlis and disbursed to the Authority each year.

(b) In order to include the funds required to operate the Maldives Qualifications Authority in the state budget as per subsection (a) of this Article, the Ministry shall send the request to the Minister responsible for the state's financial affairs, in accordance with Law No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act) and the regulations made thereunder.

Maldives National Qualifications Framework
16.
(a) There shall be a framework named the "Maldives National Qualifications Framework" that outlines the levels of the formal higher education and training system, the standards of those levels, the pathways to each level, the required learning outcomes at each level, and the details of the qualification obtained upon completion of each level.

(b) Preparing, reviewing, and amending the framework mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article is a responsibility of the Maldives Qualifications Authority.

(c) The Maldives National Qualifications Framework shall be implemented after approval by the Advisory Board of the Maldives Qualifications Authority.

(d) The purposes of the Maldives National Qualifications Framework are as follows:
(1) To maintain the quality of qualifications and to reinforce policies related to maintaining the quality of higher education;
(2) To indicate the links between one qualification and another, and to determine the pathways for progression from one qualification to another;
(3) To classify and recognize academic qualifications, professional qualifications, and technical and vocational skills qualifications.

(e) Higher education and training programs that fit into the Maldives National Qualifications Framework must be conducted in accordance with the Maldives National Qualifications Framework. To ensure such programs are conducted in accordance with the National Qualifications Framework, the Maldives Qualifications Authority is vested with the power to do the following:
(1) To ensure that every program fitting the Maldives National Qualifications Framework conducted in the Maldives is designed in accordance with the Framework, and for the Maldives Qualifications Authority to grant permission to conduct the program;
(2) To inspect and monitor, without prior notice, relevant documents, ongoing classes, and other resources if needed to verify that every higher education and training program fitting the Maldives National Qualifications Framework is being conducted in accordance with the Framework.

(f) This Act does not prevent the conduct of a higher education program or training that is outside the Maldives National Qualifications Framework.

(g) The quality of higher education and training programs completed for a job that requires a special license shall be ensured and assessed by the licensing authority. If such a licensed higher education or training program is a program that fits the Maldives National Qualifications Framework, it must be a program conducted in accordance with the regulations of the Maldives Qualifications Authority and with its permission.

(h) If it is proven to the Maldives Qualifications Authority that a program within the Maldives National Qualifications Framework is not designed or conducted in accordance with the Framework, the measures to be taken in response shall be stated in a regulation made by the Maldives Qualifications Authority under this Act.

Accreditation
17. The Maldives Qualifications Authority shall accredit higher education and training programs as specified in this Act. The related regulation shall be formulated and publicized by the Authority.

Institutional Audit
18. To ensure that higher education institutions are operating in accordance with the Maldives National Qualifications Framework, the Maldives Qualifications Authority shall conduct and publicize an institutional audit of these institutions at least once every 3 (three) years, in accordance with the regulation made under this Act.

Recognition of Academic Certificates
19. The procedures for recognizing higher education and training certificates shall be formulated and publicized by the Maldives Qualifications Authority with the advice of its Advisory Board.

Register of Maldivian Qualifications
20.
(a) The Maldives Qualifications Authority shall compile, publicize, and maintain a Register of Maldivian Qualifications that shows the higher education programs in the Maldives that have been accredited and authorized by the Authority.

(b) The register mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be the national repository for all accredited programs, qualifications, and higher education institutions and establishments in the Maldives.
Chapter Three

Operation of Higher Education and Training Institutions

Operation of Higher Education and Training Institutions
21.
(a) Higher education and training institutions in the Maldives must be operated after being registered with the Ministry in the manner prescribed in this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

(b) For the purpose of this Article, higher education and training institutions include universities, colleges, institutes, and their campuses and outreach centers, and vocational training centers.

(c) When registering universities, colleges, institutes, and their campuses and outreach centers, and vocational training centers as specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the Ministry must ensure that these places have adequate physical and human resources to provide education to students at an appropriate standard.

(d) Universities, colleges, institutes, and their campuses and outreach centers, and vocational training centers that are not registered with the Ministry at the time this Act comes into force must be registered within 6 (six) months of the formulation of the regulation mentioned in subsection (g) of this Article.

(e) After the period mentioned in subsection (d) of this Article expires, it is prohibited to operate any of the institutions mentioned in this Article without registration. The Maldives Qualifications Authority must cease to recognize programs taught by such institutions.

(f) The Maldives Qualifications Authority must formulate and publicize a regulation stating the procedures regarding the cessation of recognition of programs taught by such institutions as specified in subsection (e) of this Article.

(g) Within 6 (six) months of this Act coming into force, the Ministry must formulate and publicize a regulation regarding the registration and operation of higher education and training institutions.

Classifications of Higher Education and Training Institutions
22.
(a) The classifications of higher education and training institutions are stated below.
(1) University;
(2) College;
(3) Institute.

(b) The procedure for classifying higher education and training institutions under subsection (a) of this Article shall be stated in a regulation made under this Act.

(c) The procedures for higher education and training institutions classified under this Article to conduct face-to-face programs, distance learning programs, and blended learning programs shall be stated in a regulation made under this Act.

Downgrading the Status of Higher Education and Training Institutions
23.
(a) A higher education and training institution may submit a request to the Ministry to downgrade its status, in accordance with the regulation made under this Act.

(b) If a higher education and training institution requests to downgrade its status as per subsection (a) of this Article, the Ministry has the discretion to downgrade the status of that institution in accordance with the regulation made under this Act.

(c) For the purpose of this Article, "downgrading the status of a higher education and training institution" refers to changing the institution to a classification lower than the one it was first registered under, as per Article 22 of this Act.

Conducting Higher Education and Training Programs
24. Higher education and training institutions must conduct programs that fit the Maldives National Qualifications Framework in accordance with the principles set out in the Maldives National Qualifications Framework.

Operation of Foreign Higher Education and Training Institutions in the Maldives
25.
(a) Foreign universities, colleges, and institutes or their campuses must be registered and operated in the Maldives in accordance with the regulation made under this Act.

(b) The regulation mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be made and publicized by the Ministry.

Matters Related to Ensuring the Quality of Higher Education and Training
26. To ensure the quality of education and training provided by higher education and training institutions in the Maldives, those institutions must do the following.

(a) To ensure financial capability, submit an audited report of the institution to the Ministry within 6 (six) months of the end of each financial year, as per the regulation made under this Act;

(b) To ensure compliance with this Act and the regulations made under it, provide the information specified by the Ministry within the designated timeframe for that matter.

Principles for Service Provision by Higher Education Institutions
27. Higher education and training providers must adhere to the following principles.

(a) Higher education and training providers must act on a principle of equality without any discrimination among students in admitting them to programs and in providing instruction;

(b) If a higher education and training provider has arrangements for any financial benefits for its students, the institution must formulate and publicize in a manner visible to students the method for applying for such benefits, and the related conditions and principles;

(c) Higher education and training providers must formulate and publicize in a manner visible to students the fees to be collected from students for their programs, the fees for administrative services provided to them, and the procedures for paying these fees;

(d) Higher education institutions must mandate that students complete their assessed work themselves, prohibit the completion of such work through a third party, and formulate and publicize the related principles in a manner visible to students.

Complaint Submission System
28. Higher education and training providers in the Maldives must establish a complaint submission mechanism that includes the following matters, formulate the related procedures, and publicize them in a manner visible to students.

(a) Matters related to student admissions and enrollment;
(b) Matters related to student instruction and other services provided;
(c) Other matters specified in the regulation made under this Act.
Chapter Four

Operation of Universities

Existing Universities
29.
(a) At the time of commencement of this Act, the "Maldives National University," established and operating under Law No. 3/2011 (Maldives National University Act), and the "Islamic University of Maldives," operating under Law No. 11/2015 (Islamic University of Maldives Act), shall be governed by the principles stated in those respective Acts.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, if this Act mandates something regarding the operation of those universities that is not in those Acts, those universities must act in accordance with the principle in this Act.

Structure of Universities
30. Unless otherwise stated in another law, the structure of universities shall be formulated to include the following matters.

(a) The purpose and legal status of the university's establishment;
(b) The responsibilities and powers of the university;
(c) The composition of the university;
(d) The method for determining positions and appointing persons to administrative and academic bodies and other posts;
(e) The regulations and principles regarding the meetings of various administrative and academic bodies;
(f) The financial affairs of the university;
(g) The principle stating all regulations that must be made regarding the operation of the university.

Establishing Universities
31.
(a) A university may be operated in the Maldives only after being registered with the Ministry in the manner prescribed in this Act and the regulation made under this Act.

(b) Matters regarding the registration of universities, granting of university status, and operation of universities in the Maldives shall be stated in the regulation made under this Act.

Conditions for Registration as a University
32. An educational institution may be registered as a university in the Maldives if it meets the following conditions.

(a) If it has been operating continuously as a college in the Maldives for at least 20 (twenty) years, or if it has been registered and operating as a university recognized by the government of a foreign country for 10 (ten) years in that country; and
(b) If it has established facilities suitable for operating a university that meet the standards set by the Ministry.

Formation of a University
33.
(a) Parties wishing to establish and operate a university in the Maldives, and parties wishing to convert a registered college or an equivalent institution for higher education and training into a university, must submit the charter required to establish the university to the Ministry in the manner prescribed in this Act and the regulation made under this Act.

(b) If any party submits a request to establish a university, the Ministry shall form a technical committee to review whether the conditions specified in this Act and the regulation made under this Act are met and to prepare an assessment report.

(c) The method for forming the technical committee by the Ministry under subsection (b) of this Article, and the principles related to the committee's work, shall be stated in the regulation made under this Act.

(d) The assessment report prepared by the technical committee mentioned in subsection (b) of this Article shall be prepared and sent to the Ministry within a maximum of 3 (three) months from the submission of the request to establish a university as per subsection (a) of this Article. The report must state whether the proposal to establish the university meets the conditions set out in this Act and the regulation made under this Act.

(e) After the Ministry reviews the assessment report formulated under subsection (d) of this Article, it must make one of the following decisions within 1 (one) month of receiving the report.
(1) To issue the university charter, if the proposal to establish the university meets all the conditions set out in this Act and the regulation made under this Act; or
(2) To provide an opportunity to resubmit, stating the issues that need to be rectified, if the proposal meets the main conditions set out in this Act and the regulation made under this Act but there are matters that require amendment; or
(3) To not issue the university charter, if the proposal to establish the university does not meet the main conditions set out in the regulation made under this Act.

(f) If the Ministry makes the decision in subsection (e)(1) of this Article, the Ministry shall issue the university charter within the period mentioned in subsection (e).

(g) Upon issuing the charter to establish a university, the Ministry shall publish the charter in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

Amending a University Charter
34.
(a) If the Ministry deems it beneficial for higher education, the Ministry has the discretion to amend a charter issued to a university, as requested by the university, in accordance with the regulation made under this Act.

(b) An amendment made to a charter under subsection (a) of this Article must be one that further strengthens the operation of the university's work.

(c) The Ministry shall not revoke a charter issued to a university except in the manner specified in the regulation made under this Act.

(d) If a charter issued to a university is revoked, this shall be published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives. All activities of that university must cease in accordance with the regulation on university registration and operation under this Act.

(e) Even if a charter is revoked as specified in subsection (d) of this Article, no certificate previously issued by that university shall be void.

Legal Status
35.
(a) Upon the establishment of a university under this Act, a legal person is formed, having its own seal, vested with the discretion and power to do all things stated in this Act, and having the power to sue and be sued in its own name.

(b) Upon the establishment of a university under this Act, it shall be obligatory for that university to do all things stated in this Act and the regulation made under this Act.

(c) If a college registered to provide higher education and training in the Maldives is converted into a university, in addition to the matters stated in subsection (a) of this Article, all rights and obligations of that college shall be transferred to the newly formed university.

Main Responsibilities of a University
36. The responsibilities of a university established under this Act shall include the following matters.

(a) To conduct all necessary higher education and training programs to reach the highest academic standards;
(b) To issue certificates and awards in relation to the programs, training, and education provided at the university;
(c) To conduct academic research and maintain the quality of that research, and to publish that research for the benefit of the national and international community;
(d) To develop the university's resources and acquire further necessary resources to achieve the university's objectives;
(e) To do anything necessary to fulfill the above-mentioned responsibilities in a manner that does not conflict with Islamic Sharia and the laws of the Maldives.

Powers of a University
37.
(a) A university registered under this Act is vested with the following powers to achieve its objectives and fulfill its responsibilities.
(1) To acquire movable or immovable property or aid by purchase, lease, or otherwise, and to sell, lease, or otherwise dispose of property;
(2) To commercially develop scientific findings, academic research, new inventions, and goods;
(3) To seek payment or consideration for work done, services provided, and information and goods supplied to other parties on behalf of the university;
(4) To establish companies and to participate in establishing companies with other parties in a manner that facilitates the achievement of the university's objectives;
(5) To subscribe to and purchase securities;
(6) To form academic partnerships;
(7) To participate in business and profitable activities that help achieve the university's objectives;
(8) To make contracts and participate in agreements;
(9) To construct buildings;
(10) To use and command the property, land, and buildings included in the university's ownership;
(11) To provide employment and to dismiss employees from employment;
(12) To conduct business with university funds and to cease business;
(13) To conduct academic research and to patent new findings;
(14) To provide financial assistance and loans to students;
(15) To grant scholarships and fellowships;
(16) To seek research grants and to award those grants to eligible parties;
(17) To accept gifts, donations, and bequests for the university, to accept endowments and trusts, and to do all things related to them;
(18) To do other things that the university is empowered to do by this Act or any other law;
(19) To do things necessary in connection with the powers vested in the university.

(b) Universities shall formulate principles on how to exercise the powers stated in this Article.

Composition of a University
38.
(a) A university shall be composed of the following bodies.
(1) The University Council;
(2) The Academic Senate;
(3) Colleges, faculties, centers, schools, departments, divisions, institutes, and units and the like, established by the University Council for the administrative and academic operation of the university;
(4) The Complaints Committee;
(5) The Appeals Committee;
(6) Current and past students as determined by the University Council;
(7) Other administrative bodies of the university;
(8) Technical, administrative, and other staff of the university as determined by the University Council.

(b) The procedures for when employees resign from a position in a university body, the method for appointing and electing members to vacant seats in university bodies, the method for holding meetings of university bodies, the method for chairing committees, and the details of how the bodies mentioned in this Article shall operate, shall be stated in a regulation made by the University Council under this Act.

The University Council
39.
(a) The University Council is the highest governing body of the university. The composition of the University Council and the term of its members shall be determined in a regulation made by the University Council under this Act.

(b) The following matters of the University Council shall be detailed in a regulation made under this Act.
(1) Responsibilities of the University Council;
(2) Delegation of the University Council's responsibilities to another party;
(3) Members of the University Council;
(4) Quorum of the University Council;
(5) Conditions for members of the University Council;
(6) Matters related to the President of the University Council;
(7) Matters related to the Vice President of the University Council;
(8) Responsibilities of the members of the University Council;
(9) Circumstances under which the positions of University Council members become vacant, and the procedures to be followed upon such vacancy.

(c) All principles and regulations formulated by the University Council and the decisions of the Council shall be sealed with the university's seal and published in the university's gazette. They must also be available on the university's website for public viewing.

University Academic Senate
40.
(a) An Academic Senate shall be established under the regulations of the University Council as the highest committee to consult on, direct, and oversee the academic and scholarly matters of the university.

(b) The responsibilities and powers of the University Academic Senate, and matters related to the members of the Academic Senate, shall be detailed in a regulation made under this Act.

University Staff Regulation
41. The University Council shall formulate a University Staff Regulation that states how to act in matters related to university employees.

Code of Conduct for University Staff and Students
42.
(a) The code of conduct for staff working at the university and for students shall be formulated and publicized by that university.

(b) The power to maintain student discipline and take disciplinary action is vested in the Vice-Chancellor, in accordance with the principles formulated by the University Council.

(c) All or some of the powers granted to the Vice-Chancellor by subsection (b) of this Article may be delegated by the Vice-Chancellor to another senior official determined by the Vice-Chancellor.

(d) In accordance with the regulation made under this Act, any student or employee of the university may appeal a decision made by any relevant authority of the university to the Appeals Committee.

Foreign Universities
43.
(a) If a university established outside the Maldives intends to provide university education in the Maldives, it must apply to the Ministry for registration as a university in accordance with this Act.

(b) If programs of a foreign university are conducted in collaboration with a higher education institution in the Maldives, the Maldivian higher education institution intending to conduct the program must apply to the relevant authorities for permission and accreditation to conduct that program in the Maldives.

(c) A foreign university granted permission under this Article must, at the time of its first application for registration, submit an official document from the relevant official authority in the country where the university is established, authorizing and accrediting it to provide university education in the Maldives.

Matters to be Included in a University Charter
44. The university charter submitted under Article 33(a) of this Act must include the following matters.

(a) The method for establishing branches of the university;
(b) The method for revoking registration;
(c) The method for appointing senior officials of the university;
(d) The code of conduct for staff and students;
(e) The minimum reserve amount when spending university funds;
(f) A system for taking action against the university and its officials;
(g) Matters related to awarding degrees;
(h) The graduation ceremony;
(i) The location of the university;
(j) Information regarding fees;
(k) The method for preparing the university's annual report and financial reports;
(l) Transitional matters;
(m) The principles for forming and operating student and alumni associations of the university.

Powers Vested in the Ministry Regarding Universities
45.
(a) To ensure that actions are taken in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act, the Ministry is vested with the power to do the following.
(1) To investigate the following matters to ensure the quality of the university's administrative and academic management:
i. Submission of incorrect information in the information required to be submitted to the Ministry;
ii. An act by the university or a member of the university that compromises academic integrity;
iii. Complaints submitted regarding the university's finances;
iv. Complaints submitted regarding student rights.
(2) To enter the university without prior notice and to inspect the university's documents in order to investigate the matters in sub-section (1) of this section;
(3) To take action against university officials who obstruct or refuse to cooperate with an action taken by the Ministry as per sub-section (2) of this section.

(b) The procedures for the Ministry to conduct investigations under this Article, and the principles for taking action against university officials, shall be stated in the regulation made under this Act.

Revoking Registration
46.
(a) The Minister is vested with the power to revoke the registration issued to a university in the following circumstances.
(1) It is proven to the Ministry that incorrect information was included in the submission of the university charter;
(2) A condition stated in this Act that must be met for university registration is no longer met;
(3) The university submits a request to revoke its registration.

(b) If a circumstance stated in subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this Article arises, the Minister shall give the university a notice of at least 30 (thirty) days to respond.

(c) If, in the opportunity given to respond under subsection (b) of this Article, the Minister finds that there are matters that the university must rectify, a period of 3 (three) months shall be given to rectify those matters.

(d) If the matters are not rectified within the period given for rectification under subsection (c) of this Article, the Minister has the discretion to revoke the university's charter and registration, in accordance with the regulation made under this Act, after the following stages:
(1) The Minister forms a panel consisting of 5 (five) members from the Ministry to review the matter; and
(2) The panel mentioned in sub-section (1) of this section advises the Minister that the university should be dissolved.
Chapter Five

Operation of Colleges and Institutes

Registration of Colleges and Institutes
47.
(a) A college or an institute must be registered and operated in the Maldives in accordance with the regulation made under this Act, by registering with the Ministry.

(b) A higher education and training institution in the Maldives may be registered as a college if it has been operating continuously as an institute for at least 10 (ten) years, and has continuously conducted Level 5 programs of the National Qualifications Framework for 5 (five) years.

(c) When registering a college or an institute in the Maldives as per subsection (a) of this Article, the Ministry must ensure that the college or institute meets the standards set by the Ministry and has established facilities suitable for operating as a college or an institute.

Conduct of Training Programs by State Agencies
48.
(a) Higher education institutions run by state agencies may only conduct higher education and training programs that are not included in the National Qualifications Framework, in a field specific to that agency, aimed at its employees to qualify them for their jobs, as "in-service programs".

(b) A state agency whose mandate includes providing training may be granted permission by the Ministry, in accordance with the regulation made under this Act, to register and conduct a training program in a specific specialized field that is difficult for higher education and training institutions registered under this Act to conduct.
Chapter Six

National System for Vocational Education and Training

National System for Vocational Education and Training
49. The Maldives National Skills Development Authority, mentioned in Article 51 of this Act, shall formulate a national system for vocational education and training.

Purpose of the National System for Vocational Education and Training
50. The purposes of the national system for vocational education and training formulated under Article 49 of this Act are as follows.

(a) To identify the vocational skills needed to find employment or to earn an income, and to formulate a national level framework needed to provide training in those skills;
(b) To create competency standards in various technical fields of skilled craftsmanship;
(c) To maintain the quality of training conducted by training providers and employers using the standards mentioned in subsection (b) of this Article;
(d) To assist in increasing the capacity of training providers and to train assessors;
(e) To assess the training programs conducted by training providers and to endorse the certificates awarded to those who pass.

Maldives National Skills Development Authority
51.
(a) Upon the commencement of this Act, a government authority named the "Maldives National Skills Development Authority" is hereby established to oversee matters of technical and vocational skills education and training, and to implement those matters in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

(b) Upon the commencement of this Act, all property, funds, and resources under the ownership or custody of the Technical and Vocational Education and Training Authority (TVET) that existed prior to the commencement of this Act, the budget allocated to that Authority in the state budget passed by the People's Majlis, and all rights and benefits granted to that Authority by law and under agreements, and all responsibilities to be fulfilled by that Authority by law and under agreements, are hereby transferred to the authority established under subsection (a) of this Article.

(c) Upon the commencement of this Act, all employees of the Technical and Vocational Education and Training Authority (TVET) that existed prior to the commencement of this Act are hereby transferred to the authority established under subsection (a) of this Article from that moment forth.

Responsibilities of the Maldives National Skills Development Authority
52. The responsibilities of the Maldives National Skills Development Authority include the following.

(a) To determine the vocational skills required for jobs and to formulate policies for such training programs;
(b) To formulate the policies needed to operate the apprenticeship system, to register parties wishing to participate in apprenticeship programs, to collect and store that information, and to provide that information to parties who need it;
(c) To register training providers in the programs of the Maldives National Skills Development Authority and employers participating in apprenticeship programs, and to work to increase their capacity;
(d) To formulate the policies needed to conduct employer-based training, to register parties wishing to participate in the program, to collect and store that information, and to provide that information to parties who need it;
(e) To provide opportunities for employees who remain in one type of work without a certificate from a formal system to reach a higher level, by establishing and implementing a Recognition of Prior Learning system within the vocational education and training system;
(f) To formulate competency standards needed to develop people for the vocational education and training sectors, to create training materials, and to review them and make necessary changes;
(g) To conduct skills assessment tests to determine the level of skills acquired, in accordance with the standards stated in the competency standards and the standard for assessing the level students must achieve;
(h) To identify and revive traditional crafts and dying cultural arts and skills in the regions and islands of the Maldives, and to determine the extent and standard of training required in those fields;
(i) To state in the regulation made under this Act the procedures for compiling and maintaining the registry of vocational education and training providers and assessors;
(j) To form panels of technical experts and, with their technical assistance, prepare competency standards and submit them to sector councils for approval;
(k) To provide technical advice to various parties regarding the training and programs conducted within the vocational education and training system;
(l) To establish a mechanism for obtaining the necessary funds to strengthen and sustainably operate the vocational education and training system in collaboration with employers, students, the government, and state agencies;
(m) To disseminate information about vocational education and training programs to various parts of the Maldives and to plan and conduct awareness programs to find training providers and trainees;
(n) To design the Maldivian vocational education and training system in accordance with international standards and to maintain the quality of that system;
(o) To seek the advice of the Ministry when determining all policies related to the responsibilities of the Maldives National Skills Development Authority.

Powers of the Maldives National Skills Development Authority
53. To fulfill its responsibilities, the Maldives National Skills Development Authority is vested with the following powers.

(a) To form and dissolve committees required for the work of the Maldives National Skills Development Authority;
(b) To determine the scope of work for committees required for the work of the Maldives National Skills Development Authority and to formulate their rules of procedure;
(c) To determine and publicize the fees to be charged for services such as registering programs in the vocational education and training system, monitoring those programs, maintaining their quality, and assessing participants.

Chief Executive Officer of the Maldives National Skills Development Authority
54.
(a) The most senior official for the day-to-day planning and management of the work of the Maldives National Skills Development Authority, in accordance with this Act, is its Chief Executive Officer.
(b) Except for being accountable to the People's Majlis, the Maldives National Skills Development Authority shall be represented in other matters requiring representation by its Chief Executive Officer.
(c) The Chief Executive Officer of the Maldives National Skills Development Authority shall be accountable to the Minister for matters related to their work.

Appointment and Removal of the Chief Executive Officer of the Maldives National Skills Development Authority
55.
(a) The Chief Executive Officer of the Maldives National Skills Development Authority shall be appointed and removed by the President of the Republic. The position is of a rank equivalent to that of a State Minister.
(b) The Chief Executive Officer of the Maldives National Skills Development Authority must meet the following conditions:
(1) Be a Muslim;
(2) Be a citizen of the Maldives;
(3) Have obtained a Master's Degree;
(4) Have at least 10 (ten) years of experience in the field of work.
(c) Within 30 (thirty) days of this Act coming into force, the first Chief Executive Officer of the Maldives National Skills Development Authority to be appointed under this Act shall be appointed.
(d) The person appointed as the Chief Executive Officer under this Article shall be appointed for 1 (one) term of 5 (five) years.
(e) If the Chief Executive Officer of the Maldives National Skills Development Authority loses a characteristic required by this Act, they shall be removed from the position.
(f) If it appears that the Chief Executive Officer of the Maldives National Skills Development Authority is unable to fulfill their responsibilities before their term expires, or if they are found to have violated the code of conduct, the President of the Republic has the discretion to remove them from their position.

Resignation of the Chief Executive Officer of the Maldives National Skills Development Authority
56. If the Chief Executive Officer of the Maldives National Skills Development Authority wishes to resign, they shall submit a written resignation to the President of the Republic, and upon receipt of the letter by the President, they are deemed removed from the position.

Finances of the Maldives National Skills Development Authority
57.
(a) The funds required for the Maldives National Skills Development Authority to fully carry out its responsibilities shall be included in the annual state budget passed by the People's Majlis and disbursed to the Authority each year.
(b) In order to include the funds required to operate the Maldives National Skills Development Authority in the state budget as per subsection (a) of this Article, the Ministry shall send the request to the Minister responsible for the state's financial affairs, in accordance with Law No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act) and the regulations made thereunder.

Sector Council
58.
(a) The Maldives National Skills Development Authority shall establish Sector Councils, including sectors related to national development and the economy, to identify changes in the Maldivian job market, to identify fields in which people will be needed for the Maldivian job market, to formulate National Occupational Standards, and to undertake matters related to reviewing the quality of training conducted for those occupational standards.
(b) The Maldives National Skills Development Authority shall state in the regulation made under this Act the details of how Employment Sector Councils are formed and their composition.
(c) Members shall be appointed to the councils formed under this Article by the Minister, with the advice of the Chief Executive Officer of the Maldives National Skills Development Authority.

Framework for Vocational Education and Training
59. A framework for vocational education and training shall be formulated by the Maldives National Skills Development Authority.

Vocational Education and Training Programs
60.
(a) Vocational education and training programs shall be designed to include the following matters. Practical training shall be arranged under the procedure for practical training made under this Act.
(1) Arrangements for obtaining practical training related to the program;
(2) Administering an examination after the completion of vocational education and training programs to assess whether students have achieved the required knowledge for that certificate.
(b) Certificates obtained by students who complete vocational education and training programs under the competency standards shall be recognized by the Maldives National Skills Development Authority.
Chapter Seven

Taking Action

Operating a University in Violation of the Law
61.
(a) It is an offense to operate an educational institution in the Maldives under the name of a university, unless it has obtained the status of a university in the manner prescribed in this Act and the regulation made under this Act.
(b) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in subsection (a) of this Article is a fine of 50,000 (fifty thousand) Rufiyaa.

Operating a College Without Registration
62.
(a) It is an offense to operate an educational institution in the Maldives under the name of a college, unless it has obtained the status of a college in the manner prescribed in this Act and the regulation made under this Act.
(b) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in subsection (a) of this Article is a fine of 40,000 (forty thousand) Rufiyaa.

Operating an Institute Without Registration
63.
(a) It is an offense to operate an educational institution in the Maldives under the name of an institute, unless it has obtained the status of an institute in the manner prescribed in this Act and the regulation made under this Act.
(b) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in subsection (a) of this Article is a fine of 30,000 (thirty thousand) Rufiyaa.

Prohibited Circumstances for Advertising
64.
(a) It is an offense for any party, other than a higher education institution registered under this Act, to advertise as a university, college, or institute through brochures, leaflets, or by any other means.
(b) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in subsection (a) of this Article is a fine of 25,000 (twenty-five thousand) Rufiyaa.

Having a Student's Work Done by Another Party, Doing Work for Students, and Offering to Do Work for Students
65.
(a) It is prohibited for any person to do any of the following.
(1) For a student pursuing education at a higher education institution to have work that must be completed by the student themselves done by another party or to pay another party to do it;
(2) For another party to do, or offer to do, for a fee or otherwise, work that must be completed by a student pursuing education at a higher education institution themselves.
(b) The penalty for a student who commits an act specified in subsection (a)(1) of this Article is a fine of 5,000 (five thousand) Rufiyaa.
(c) The penalty for a party who commits an act specified in subsection (a)(2) of this Article is a fine of 10,000 (ten thousand) Rufiyaa.
(d) If a student commits an act like the one specified in subsection (a)(1) of this Article, a system to investigate the matter and take action must be established in every higher education institution, in accordance with the principles set out in the regulation made under this Act.
(e) If a higher education institution determines, after investigating a matter under subsection (d) of this Article, that a student has committed an act like the one specified in subsection (a)(1) of this Article, and if the act committed by the student is a prohibited act under the relevant regulation of the higher education institution, this Act does not prevent the institution from taking additional action against the student as stated in its regulation, in addition to the measure stated in subsection (b) of this Article.
(f) The Ministry must establish a system, as specified in the regulation made under this Act, to check whether higher education institutions are acting in accordance with subsection (d) of this Article, and to monitor and take action against those institutions.
(g) If a party mentioned in subsection (a)(2) of this Article commits an act specified in that sub-section, action shall be taken against that party under the system established by the Ministry, as specified in the regulation made under this Act.
(h) If a higher education institution decides to fine a student under subsection (b) of this Article after investigating a matter under subsection (d) of this Article, or if the Ministry decides to fine any party under subsection (c) of this Article after investigating a matter under subsection (g) of this Article, the fine shall be paid to a place specified in the regulation made under this Act.

Submitting Incorrect Information
66.
(a) It is an offense to submit incorrect information when applying to operate a university, college, or institute under this Act, or when sending other information required to be sent to the Ministry.
(b) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in subsection (a) of this Article is a fine of 25,000 (twenty-five thousand) Rufiyaa.

Power to Take Action
67.
(a) Unless otherwise stated in this Act, the Ministry is vested with the power to investigate cases submitted in relation to the offenses stated in this chapter in collaboration with relevant authorities, and if any party is found guilty of any of those offenses, to take action as per this chapter.
(b) The procedures for investigating and taking action on cases submitted in relation to the offenses stated in this chapter shall be specified in the regulation made under this Act.

Matters for which no Penalty is Specified in this Act
68. For matters not specifically provided for in this Act, the penalty for parties who violate this Act and the regulations made under this Act is a fine not exceeding 10,000 (ten thousand) Rufiyaa.

Conducting Criminal Investigations
69. In enforcing this Act and the regulations made under it, if an act committed by any party in violation of this Act or a regulation made under it constitutes a criminal offense, the Ministry shall submit the matter to the relevant authorities for investigation.

Suing for Compensation
70. If any party suffers a loss due to an act stated as an offense in this Act, that person has the right to file a case in court to seek compensation for that loss.
Chapter Eight

Miscellaneous

Making and Implementing Regulations
71.
(a) Unless otherwise stated in this Act, all regulations that must be made under this Act shall be made and implemented by the Ministry.
(b) Unless otherwise stated in this Act, the regulations that must be made under this Act shall be made, publicized, and published within 12 (twelve) months from the date this Act comes into force.
(c) The Ministry shall make the following regulations under this Act.
(1) Regulation on the Registration and Operation of Higher Education Institutions;
(2) Regulation on the Registration and Operation of Universities in the Maldives;
(3) Regulation on the Operation of Colleges and Institutes in the Maldives;
(4) Regulation on the Operation of Face-to-Face, Distance, and Blended Learning Programs by Higher Education and Training Institutions;
(5) Regulation on the Registration and Operation of Foreign Colleges and Institutes or their Campuses in the Maldives;
(6) Regulation on the Conduct of Higher Education and Training Programs by State Agencies;
(7) Regulation on the Provision of Higher Education and Training Information;
(8) Regulation on the Naming conventions used in the Higher Education and Training Sector;
(9) Regulation on the Registration and Operation of Higher Education Institutions in the Maldives by Foreign Parties;
(10) Other regulations that the Ministry deems necessary to create for the implementation of this Act.

Commencement of the Act
72. This Act shall come into force on the date it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

Definitions
73. In this Act, the following words and phrases are used in the meaning given below.

(a) "Ministry" refers to the ministry to which the responsibility of overseeing the state's higher education and training affairs is assigned at the time.

(b) "Minister" refers to the minister of the ministry to which the responsibility of overseeing higher education and training affairs is assigned at the time.

(c) "College" refers to all colleges providing higher education and training that are registered as a college with the Ministry.

(d) "Maldives National Qualifications Framework" refers to the framework formulated to classify and set standards for higher education qualifications. This framework shall be called the "Maldives National Qualifications Framework" in the English language.

(e) "Certificate" refers to the qualifications classified and determined in the Maldives National Qualifications Framework.

(f) "Higher Education and Training" refers to education and training programs that fit a level of the Maldives National Qualifications Framework, provided at an institution registered with the Ministry, and programs for teaching vocational and artisanal skills prepared and conducted under the National Competency Standard.

(g) "Competency Standard" refers to the standards of basic knowledge and skills required to train people for skilled vocational jobs.

(h) "Higher Education and Training Institution" refers to places operated after being registered with the Ministry to provide higher education and training.

(i) "Institutional Audit" refers to the standard used to ensure and assess the quality of higher education.

(j) "Apprenticeship" refers to technical and vocational skills training programs provided in collaboration with training providers and employers under a specific designated system.

(k) "Employer-Based Training" refers to training programs provided through employers.

(l) "Sector Council" refers to a technical panel formed by including employers from a specific sector, experts in education and training in the sector, and professional associations of the sector.

(m) "Recognition of Prior Learning" refers to the principle that facilitates opportunities for higher education and training for individuals who are in the workforce without a specific certificate determined through a formal system, by recognizing their level of competence through the vocational education and training system to help them progress to a higher level.

(n) "Institute" refers to a place registered with the Ministry to conduct programs for higher education, and for teaching vocational and artisanal skills.

(o) "Outreach Center" refers to a branch established in a location other than the main center of an institute established under this Act, to provide some of the services offered by that center.

(p) "Campus" refers to a branch established in a location other than the main center of colleges and universities established under this Act, to provide some of the services offered by that center.

(q) "University Charter" refers to the document issued by the Ministry upon fulfillment of the conditions stated in this Act and the regulation made under this Act for establishing a university, granting permission to establish the university, determining the rights and privileges of the university, and indicating that the status of a university has been conferred.

(r) "Having a student's work done by another party, doing work for students, and offering to do work for students" refers to, in a program accredited under this Act and conducted according to the National Qualifications Framework at a higher education and training institution, the act of a student having assignments and research workwhich are designated to be done by the student themselves for assessment to complete the programcompleted by another party for a fee or otherwise, and submitting that work to the institution as the student's own work; and for any party to do such work, or to advertise in any way that such work is done.
