Anti-Corruption Commission Act

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This is the law that specifies the responsibilities, powers, and mandate of the "Anti-Corruption Commission" established under the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives. It also outlines the qualifications and standards of conduct for its members and defines corruption.
(b) This law shall be cited as the "Anti-Corruption Commission Act."

Legal Status

    The Anti-Corruption Commission is an independent legal entity with its own seal, possessing the power to sue and be sued, and to enter into transactions in its own name.

Composition of the Commission

    The Anti-Corruption Commission shall be composed of 5 (five) members.

Appointment of Members

4.
(a) The members of the Commission shall be appointed by the President of the Republic in accordance with this Article.
(b) Whenever members need to be appointed to the Commission, the President of the Republic shall submit to the People's Majlis a number of names not less than the number of members to be appointed.
(c) The names submitted by the President of the Republic to the People's Majlis under subsection (b) shall be selected from individuals the President deems fit and from those who respond to a public announcement. When submitting these names, the names of other individuals who responded to the public announcement shall also be sent to the People's Majlis for their information.
(d) From the names submitted to the People's Majlis by the President of the Republic under subsection (b), the President of the Republic shall appoint those who are approved by a majority of the members of the People's Majlis present and voting in a session.
(e) Appointment to the Commission shall be from among persons who possess the education and capability to perform the responsibilities and duties of the Commission and who fulfill the criteria specified in Article 5 of this Act.

Qualifications Required for Members

    Members shall fulfill the following criteria while remaining in their position on the Commission:
    (a) Be a Muslim;
    (b) Be a citizen of the Maldives;
    (c) Be at least 25 years of age;
    (d) Not have been convicted of an offense for which a hadd (a punishment prescribed in Islamic law) is prescribed in Islam within the past 5 (five) years;
    (e) Not be holding a political post elected or appointed under the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives or any law;
    (f) Not be employed by the government or any other party;
    (g) Not have been convicted of an offense of seeking unjust enrichment, fraud, or bribery;
    (h) Not be serving a sentence of more than 12 (twelve) months for a criminal offense, and if convicted of a criminal offense and sentenced to more than 12 (twelve) months, 5 (five) years must have passed since the completion of the sentence or since being pardoned for the offense;
    (i) Not be a member of a political party or an activist in a political party.

Term of Membership

6.
(a) The term of a member appointed to the Commission shall be 1 (one) term of 5 (five) years from the date of appointment.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the People's Majlis may approve the extension of the term of any member, except for a member dismissed under Article 14 of this Act, for a period not exceeding an additional 5 (five) years.

Appointment of the President and Vice President of the Commission

7.
(a) The President of the Republic shall appoint a President and a Vice President of the Commission from among its members in accordance with this Article.
(b) Whenever a President or a Vice President of the Commission needs to be appointed, the President of the Republic shall submit the name or names of a person or persons from among the members appointed to the Commission to the People's Majlis.
(c) From the names submitted by the President of the Republic to the People's Majlis in accordance with subsection (b), the President of the Republic shall appoint the person approved by a majority of the members of the People's Majlis present and voting in a session to the post of President or Vice President of the Commission.

Responsibilities of the President of the Commission

    The responsibilities of the President of the Commission are set out below:
    (a) To provide advice and guidance necessary for the Commission to discharge its responsibilities in a robust and result-oriented manner, in accordance with the Constitution and the law;
    (b) To make decisions related to the administration of the Commission, such as setting the agenda for Commission meetings and determining the date and time for such meetings;
    (c) To set an example and establish leadership in the adherence to ethical standards by the Commission, its members, and its staff;
    (d) In consultation with the Commission, to establish procedures for managing the various administrative tasks of the Commission, ensure that administrative matters are conducted in accordance with those procedures, and take necessary measures;
    (e) To preside over the meetings of the Commission; and
    (f) To implement the decisions of the Commission.

Responsibilities of the Vice President of the Commission

    In the event that the President of the Commission is unable to perform the duties of his office, or is absent with an excuse, or the post becomes vacant, the Vice President of the Commission shall temporarily assume the responsibilities of his office. In addition, the Vice President shall also perform other responsibilities of the Commission as assigned by the President of the Commission.

Vacancy of a Post

10.
(a) A post of a member of the Commission shall be deemed vacant in the following circumstances:
1. Upon completion of the term of membership;
2. Upon resignation;
3. Upon removal from the membership of the Commission in accordance with Article 14 of this Act;
4. Upon contesting for a political post elected under the Constitution or a law;
5. Upon death;
6. Upon the loss of any of the qualifications required by this Act for members of the Commission.
(b) The post of the President or Vice President of the Commission shall be deemed vacant upon the occurrence of any of the circumstances under which a member's post is deemed vacant, or upon the resignation of either the President or the Vice President from their respective posts.

Appointment to Vacant Posts

11.
(a) In the event of a vacancy in a member's post due to the circumstances mentioned in subsection (a)(1) of Article 10 of this Act, the necessary consultation with the People's Majlis, as stipulated in Article 4 of this Act, must be sought and concluded 30 (thirty) days before the vacancy occurs.
(b) If the post of the President of the Commission, the Vice President of the Commission, or a member of the Commission becomes vacant due to any of the circumstances mentioned in subsections (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5), and (a)(6) of Article 10 of this Act, a new person shall be appointed to that post within 60 (sixty) days of the vacancy.
(c) To elect members to the Commission upon the expiration of a term as per subsection (a), the President of the Republic shall submit the names to the People's Majlis 60 (sixty) days before the expiration of the term.

Responsibilities of Members

    The responsibilities of the members of the Commission are set out below:
    (a) To perform the duties required of a member of the Commission independently, justly, without bias, and without succumbing to any influence;
    (b) To attend Commission meetings diligently and participate actively and collaboratively in them;
    (c) To carry out the responsibilities assigned to the member from among the Commission's responsibilities, and to provide advice and assistance to the President of the Commission in the performance of the Commission's responsibilities;
    (d) To uphold the standards of independence and integrity required of a member of the Commission;
    (e) To act in good faith at all times in the capacity of a member of the Commission and to prioritize the achievement of the Commission's objectives and the protection of its interests.

Assumption of Office by Members

    A member of the Commission may assume his or her office only after taking and signing the following oath before a Judge:
    "I, ......... (name of the person) ........., do swear in the name of Almighty Allah that I will respect the religion of Islam, uphold the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives, be loyal to the Maldivian nation, and discharge the duties and responsibilities of the membership of the Anti-Corruption Commission faithfully and with integrity, in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Maldives."

Removal from Membership

    A member of the Commission may be removed from office in a circumstance as specified in subsection (a) of this Article, and in the manner prescribed in subsection (b) of this Article.
    (a) In the event that a member has acted contrary to the matters specified in subsections (a) and (b) of Article 17 of this Act, or a situation arises that prevents the member from performing his duties, or it is deemed that the member lacks the capability to perform his duties, or a situation specified in Articles 17-8 of this Act arises;
    (b) If the committee of the People's Majlis designated to oversee matters concerning independent commissions and posts under the rules of the People's Majlis finds that a circumstance specified in subsection (a) has occurred, and a resolution to remove the member from the Commission is passed by a majority of the members present and voting in a session of the People's Majlis, the member shall be removed from membership.

Resignation

15.
(a) If a member of the Commission wishes to resign from his or her membership, the member shall submit a letter stating so to the President of the Republic, and upon receipt of the letter by the President of the Republic, the member shall be deemed to have been removed from the membership of the Commission.
(b) If the President or the Vice President of the Commission wishes to resign from that post, he or she shall submit a letter stating so to the President of the Republic, and upon receipt of the letter by the President of the Republic, that person shall be deemed to have been removed from the post of President or Vice President of the Commission.
(c) Resignation of the President or the Vice President of the Commission from their respective posts under subsection (b) shall not be considered as resignation from their membership of the Commission.

Salary and Allowances

16.
(a) The salary and other allowances for the President, Vice President, and members of the Commission shall be determined by the People's Majlis.
(b) The salary and allowances provided to the President and the Vice President shall not be reduced during their term of office. Similarly, the salary and allowances provided to the members of the Commission shall not be reduced during their term of membership.
(c) The salary and allowances for the employees of the Commission shall be determined by the Commission in consultation with the Ministry of Finance and Treasury.

Working Independently without Influence

17.
(a) In discharging their duties, members of the Commission shall not yield to any fear or influence.
(b) In deciding any matter of the Commission, or in conducting any matter, or in holding any consultation, or in determining any policy, no member shall, directly or indirectly, attempt to obtain a personal benefit.
(c) All matters of the Commission shall be carried out for the public interest, in a manner that achieves the objectives of the Commission.
(d) For the sake of transparency, accurate information regarding a matter shall be made easily accessible to the public at the time of the matter.
(e) The Commission has full legal authority, independence, and power in the administration of its work, the organization of its administrative structure, the execution of its tasks, the planning of its programs, the prevention of acts of corruption, the conduct of its investigations, and the taking of necessary measures.

Collective Conduct of the Commission

17-1.
(a) Members of the Commission shall not act in a manner that detracts from the honor, dignity, and integrity of the Commission in the performance of their official duties.
(b) The duty of accountability and responsibility regarding the policies, decisions, and actions of the Commission shall be fulfilled by the members of the Commission in a transparent manner.

Personal Conduct of Members

17-2. Every member of the Commission, as an individual and as a member of the Commission, shall uphold the following principles at all times:
(a) Not to do anything at any time that may bring the honor of the Commission into disrepute.
(b) Not to do anything that may undermine the duties to be performed as a member of the Commission.
(c) Not to use the position to commit, directly or indirectly, an act contrary to the law.
(d) Not to use the position to, directly or indirectly, harm a specific person or to defame him or her.
(e) Not to seek from any party any gift, assistance, benefit, or hospitality other than a gift, assistance, benefit, or hospitality that is generally available to any person.
(f) To attend Commission meetings diligently and participate actively in them.

Submission of Financial Statements

17-3.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision in any other law, or any past practice under such a law, the submission of financial statements by the members of the Commission shall, after the commencement of this Act, be in accordance with the procedures set out in this Act.
(b) A person appointed to the membership of the Commission shall, within 3 (three) months of assuming office, submit to the Auditor General a financial statement showing his or her income, property registered in his or her name, and liabilities for which he or she is responsible at the time of assuming office.
(c) In addition to submitting a financial statement as specified in subsection (b) of this Article, a financial statement for each year from the date of assuming membership of the Commission shall be submitted to the Auditor General within 90 (ninety) days of the end of each year. For the purpose of this Article, a year means the period of 1 (one) year from the date on which the person assumes membership of the Commission.
(d) A member of the Commission shall, within the first 3 (three) months after leaving office or resigning, submit to the Auditor General a financial statement showing his or her income, sources of income, property registered in his or her name, and liabilities for which he or she is responsible at the time of leaving office.
(e) When submitting a financial statement of a member of the Commission under subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this Article, the financial statements of his or her spouse and children under 18 (eighteen) years of age shall also be submitted.
(f) The financial statements required to be submitted under subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this Article shall be prepared in accordance with the format prescribed by the Auditor General and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.
(g) If the Auditor General finds an issue in a statement submitted under this Article, the Auditor General shall submit the matter to the People's Majlis.

Prohibition of Additional Employment and Conflicting Business Activities

17-4.
(a) A member of the Commission shall not hold any other employment for income. Nor shall a member fill any other position that provides an income or benefit.
(b) A member of the Commission shall not be actively involved in running a business. Nor shall a member be involved in a professional activity to earn an income. Nor shall a member engage in any other work that provides an income. And shall not buy or lease state property and land. And no member of the Commission shall have any financial interest, directly or indirectly, in any transaction between the state and any other party.
(c) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of this Article, holding shares in a public company that sells shares in the Maldives, in a manner that does not make one a significant shareholder, shall not be considered as conducting business for the purpose of this Article. For the purpose of this Article, a "significant shareholder of a public company that sells shares in the Maldives" refers to a shareholder who holds a position that allows him or her to, directly or indirectly, control more than 5% (five percent) of the share capital of a public company that sells shares in the Maldives.
(d) Except as a member of the Commission, a member shall not participate, whether with or without remuneration, in any other commission, council, board, committee, or any other body of the state.
(e) A member of the Commission shall not work for any party as a consultant.
(f) A member of the Commission shall not become a member of a civil society organization of a nature that could conflict with the responsibilities of the Commission.
(g) For the purpose of subsection (b) of this Article, the sale of a plot of land, a house, or property in the name of a member of the Commission at a price not exceeding the prevailing market price for such a plot of land, house, or property, and the earning of income by leasing such a plot of land, house, or property at a price not exceeding the prevailing market rent, are not included in the business and work specified in subsection (b) of this Article.
(h) A member of the Commission shall not, for a period of 12 (twelve) months following his or her departure from the membership of the Commission, hold any employment or engage in any work that conflicts with the interests he or she served as a member of the Commission.

Principles to be Upheld in Fulfilling Responsibilities

17-5.
(a) In discharging their official responsibilities and duties, members of the Commission shall uphold the following principles:
(1) To abide by and respect all laws of the Maldives, and to obey the orders of any authority issuing a lawful order under those laws in the performance of official duties;
(2) To make decisions without any personal bias, based solely on the evidence at hand, and in doing so, to be sincere, fair, and diligent in one's work and duties;
(3) To treat others with respect in official interactions and in dealing with persons suspected of an offense;
(4) Not to use the power and authority vested in them with ill intent to benefit or harm any particular party, to use the authority granted within the confines of the law in a proper manner, and in exercising that authority, to respect the rights, duties, and lawful interests of others as prescribed by law;
(5) Except in the circumstances specified in subsection (b) of Article 17-2 of this Act, not to seek, directly or indirectly, assistance, favors, hospitality, or gifts from any party;
(6) Not to do anything that may obstruct the performance of a duty required by law, or that may later hinder the performance of that duty, or that may create a conflict of interest;
(7) Not to place oneself in a situation where one is obliged to do something in return for a favor done by a particular person or party;
(8) To maintain the confidentiality of information obtained in the course of performing one's duties and secrets related to cases, both while being a member and after leaving the membership;
(9) To disclose information that must be disclosed to another party in a proper manner as required by law, to inform the parties that need to be informed, to provide accurate information in the performance of official duties, and not to disclose incorrect or false information or information that misrepresents the truth;
(10) To consider that the most fundamental principle in selecting and appointing people for the work of the Commission is the possession of suitable capability and educational standards for the work, and to consider that the main standard to be observed in giving employment, promotions, and in other matters related to employees is their suitability in terms of education, ethics, and work;
(11) Not to participate in political debates, not to use one's position to achieve a political objective, not to do anything that suggests support for or opposition to political activities, and not to do anything that suggests yielding to political influence;
(12) To constantly assess the situations in which the employees of the Commission may be exposed to acts of corruption, and to shape their official responsibilities, work ethics, and the administrative procedures of the Commission in a way that their actions do not pave the way for corruption;
(13) To implement the necessary procedures to keep the employees and members of the Commission away from acts of corruption, to provide them with education and training, to be vigilant of their financial situation to ensure they remain free from unjust enrichment, and for the members of the Commission to set an example of being free from corruption;
(14) If any member or employee of the Commission is ordered, pressured, or compelled to do or not to do something in violation of the code of conduct, or if an undue influence is exerted that obstructs the employee's work from being carried out with integrity, to report it without delay to the Prosecutor General and the People's Majlis; and
(15) Not to take any adverse action against any person who submits a case to the Commission.
(b) The responsibilities specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be considered a fundamental principle of the employment of the President of the Commission, the members of the Commission, and the employees of the Commission. This shall be the case even if there is no employment contract, or if any of these matters are not included in an existing employment contract. And, a violation of any of these matters shall be considered to give rise to a situation for taking disciplinary action against that person.

Formulation of Policies

17-6. The policies, procedures, training, and details related to the standards required for the full implementation of the principles set out in Article 17-5 of this Act shall be formulated and implemented by the Commission within 6 (six) months from the date this Act comes into force. And those standards shall be detailed to the extent that it is clear what is permissible and what is prohibited in adhering to those standards.

Adherence to the Code of Conduct

17-7.
(a) Members of the Commission shall, in the performance of their official duties, adhere to the highest standards of the code of conduct set out in this Act, and shall adhere to those standards at all times to the extent that it is known to others that they are adhering to them.
(b) Just as the adherence to the code of conduct specified in subsection (a) is made mandatory for the members of the Commission under that subsection, the President of the Commission shall ensure that the employees of the Commission also adhere to that code of conduct.
(c) The members of the Commission, as individuals and as commissioners, shall uphold the independence, integrity, impartiality, and ethical and behavioral standards of the Commission.

Violation of the Code of Conduct by Members

17-8.
(a) A violation by a member of the Commission of any of the principles of the code of conduct set out in this Act shall, notwithstanding any other provision in any other article of this Act or in any other law, be deemed to be the commission of an act unbecoming of his or her office, and shall be considered to give rise to a situation in which he or she may be removed from office.
(b) If an act committed by a member of the Commission in violation of the code of conduct constitutes a criminal offense, the taking of the measure specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall not be a bar to bringing a criminal charge against him or her.
(c) If the Commission determines that a member or employee who participated in a decision of the Commission has acted in violation of the code of conduct set out in this Act or in violation of Article 28 of this Act, the Commission shall have the power to review the decision made by the Commission with the participation of that member or employee.

Violation of the Code of Conduct by Employees

17-9.
(a) If an employee of the Commission violates any of the principles of the code of conduct set out in subsection (a) of Article 17-5 of this Act, action shall be taken against that employee in accordance with the regulations for employees of the Commission, taking into account the seriousness of the violation.
(b) The measures that can be taken against employees of the Commission for violating the code of conduct in the situation specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be stated in the regulations for employees of the Commission made under this Act.
(c) If an act committed by an employee of the Commission in violation of the code of conduct constitutes a criminal offense, the taking of action in accordance with the regulations for employees of the Commission under subsection (a) of this Article shall not be a bar to bringing a criminal charge against him or her.

Protection

    No civil or criminal proceedings shall be brought against the President, the Vice President, a member, or an employee of the Commission for any act done or omitted in good faith in their official capacity, in accordance with the law, or within the scope of a power conferred by a law, for the purpose of discharging the duties and responsibilities of the Commission and exercising the powers vested in the Commission.

Session of the Commission

    A session of the Commission shall be held at least once every month.

Quorum and Voting

20.
(a) A session of the Commission can be held only if more than half of the members of the Commission are present.
(b) The Commission can decide on any matter only with the majority vote of the members present and voting in the session.

Maintaining Records of Meetings

20-1.
(a) The minutes of the meetings of the Commission shall be recorded verbatim and maintained. And the audio recordings of those meetings shall be maintained.
(b) The minutes shall be written and prepared in a manner that, without adding or omitting from the statements of the members, the statement of a member of the Commission is reflected in the minutes as it was said, and the proceedings of the meeting are clearly understood.
(c) If the Commission conducts any investigation or obtains any testimony, it shall be recorded verbatim. And the audio recording of that investigation shall be maintained.
(d) The minutes of the meetings of the Commission shall include details of the attendance of the members of the Commission and how they voted.
(e) The attendance of the meetings of the Commission shall be published on the Commission's website once every month.
(f) Notwithstanding any other provision in any other law, the documents and recordings referred to in subsections (a) and (c) of this Article shall be safely maintained by the Commission for a period of at least 10 (ten) years.

Responsibilities Entrusted to the Commission

    The responsibilities of the Commission are set out below:
    (a) To investigate and inquire into cases of the offense of corruption, and in doing so, if a complaint is submitted alleging that any party has committed, is committing, or is about to commit an act suspected of being an act of corruption, to investigate and inquire into that matter.
    (b) Without a complaint being submitted by a particular party, if information is received that an offense of corruption has occurred, is occurring, or is about to occur, or if such an offense is suspected to have occurred, be occurring, or be about to occur, to conduct the necessary inquiries and investigations on its own initiative, without being informed by any particular party and without receiving information from any particular party.
    (c) To clarify matters that need further investigation in connection with the matters being investigated by the Commission by submitting them to government agencies and private parties. In doing so, to issue necessary orders to any party within the jurisdiction of the Commission in relation to a case being investigated by the Commission.
    (d) After an investigation by the Commission, in matters where the Commission believes there is sufficient evidence to prosecute the offense of corruption, to send the case to the Prosecutor General for submission to the court.
    (e) To raise awareness among government employees, employees of state-owned enterprises, and employees of companies in which the state has a share, about the harm caused by acts of corruption and the evils of such acts, to promote honesty, trustworthiness, and integrity in the administration of the state, and to take necessary measures.
    (f) To work towards raising public awareness about the harm caused by acts of corruption and the evils of such acts and to promote public integrity.
    (g) To conduct necessary research to stop acts of corruption, to provide advice to government agencies on the measures they should take, and to issue necessary orders to those agencies in this regard.
    (h) To increase public awareness regarding the prevention and prohibition of acts of corruption by conducting seminars, workshops, and other programs.
    (i) To collect, prepare, and maintain statistics related to the prevention and prohibition of corruption, to conduct research to identify the ways in which acts of corruption are committed, the types of such acts, the causes that lead to such acts, and the changes in the ways such acts are committed, to disclose and publish the findings of such research, and to take measures to prevent and prohibit acts of corruption based on those findings.
    (j) To disclose matters that need to be publicly disclosed regarding the prevention and prohibition of corruption, and to publish the statements that need to be published in this regard.
    (k) To formulate national-level policies to prevent corruption, to review and amend those policies, and to implement them.
    (l) To monitor whether the plans, projects, procedures, and standards that need to be formulated and implemented by government agencies to implement the policies referred to in subsection (f) of this Article are being introduced and implemented, and in this regard, to provide necessary advice to those agencies, to make necessary submissions, to issue necessary orders, to monitor the implementation of those matters, and to assess the extent to which results are being achieved.
    (m) If it is suspected that an unusual change has occurred in the property of a government employee that is disproportionate to his or her income, to investigate the matter, and to investigate unjust enrichment and take necessary measures.
    (n) To strengthen relations with civil society organizations, to create awareness against corruption within those organizations, to familiarize them with integrity, and to work with such organizations to prevent corruption.
    (o) To investigate corruption offenses in collaboration with law enforcement agencies, and to carry out the work that needs to be done to prevent corruption in collaboration with government agencies.
    (p) In order to further strengthen the investigation of corruption offenses and the work of preventing, prohibiting, and not allowing corruption, and in relation to international treaties to which the state is a party, to identify the necessary reforms to the laws related to the prevention and prohibition of acts of corruption and to submit them to the relevant government agencies.
    (q) In the work of preventing corruption, to establish relations with foreign governments, relevant foreign agencies, and regional and international organizations, to seek assistance and aid in matters beneficial to the Maldives through these relations, to agree on matters that need to be agreed upon in this regard, and to provide the necessary cooperation to those parties.
    (r) To establish the standards, procedures, and systems to be followed in preventing corruption in government agencies and private business establishments, to determine the extent to which those establishments comply with those systems, to make the necessary reforms to those systems, and if it is noted that any of them is not complying, to order them to comply.
    (s) To forward complaints submitted to the Commission that do not fall within its jurisdiction to the relevant institution, and if a matter that needs to be investigated by another agency is identified during the investigation of a case by the Commission, to forward that matter to that agency.

Powers of the Commission

    The Commission shall have the power to do the following in connection with an investigation it is conducting, in a manner not inconsistent with the laws and regulations related to criminal procedure:
    (a) To summon persons who need to be produced as witnesses to the Commission and to obtain their testimony;
    (b) To summon to the Commission persons who appear to be relevant to an investigation being conducted by the Commission and to obtain their statements;
    (c) To obtain, examine, and, if necessary, bring to the Commission documents that appear to be relevant to an investigation being conducted by the Commission;
    (d) For the purpose of obtaining documents and other items that appear to be relevant to an investigation being conducted by the Commission, for the employees of the Commission to go to all the premises of the parties specified in Article 24 of this Act, to inspect and investigate those premises and the documents and other items therein, and, if necessary, to bring those items to the Commission;
    (e) To order persons whom the Commission deems capable of providing specific information regarding certain matters in connection with an investigation being conducted by the Commission to provide that information to the Commission in writing;
    (f) If a party specified in Article 24 of this Act fails to provide information or submit a report to the Commission within a period specified by the Commission in relation to a case submitted to it, or fails to submit a report, for the Commission to investigate the matter on its own initiative;
    (g) To order a person being questioned by the Commission in a case being investigated by the Commission not to leave the Maldives without obtaining the permission of the Commission if he or she intends to do so;
    (h) To conduct investigations publicly or in private;
    (i) To investigate and inquire into a case under the supervision of a single member of the Commission or a committee of more than one member;
    (j) To acquire, use, and safely maintain all the equipment, resources, and tools necessary for the discharge of the Commission's responsibilities;
    (k) In addition, other powers necessary for the Commission to conduct investigations and to look into cases in order to achieve the objectives of this Act and other laws made in relation to the prevention and prohibition of corruption.

Corruption

23.
(a) "Corruption" is defined as including the offense of corruption and all acts committed for the purpose of committing an offense of corruption.
(b) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this Article, "offense of corruption" refers to the offenses specified in Articles 510, 513, 515, 516, 517, and 518 of Law No. 9/2014 (Maldives Penal Code), and any other offense defined as an offense of corruption in any other law.

Jurisdiction of the Commission

    For the purpose of achieving the objectives of this Act, the powers vested in the Commission and all the work carried out by the Commission under this Act shall extend to the following areas:
    (a) All institutions of the executive branch of government and all their employees.
    (b) Members of the People's Majlis, and all offices and agencies of the People's Majlis and all their employees.
    (c) All offices and agencies of the judicial branch of government and all their employees.
    (d) In addition to the parties specified in subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this Article, other institutions of the state and their employees.
    (e) Companies run by the government, companies in which the government is a shareholder, and all their employees.
    (f) All companies, associations, organizations, political parties, and all other institutions that receive money from the state treasury as aid or in any other form, and all their employees.
    (g) All institutions to which government property, goods, or money has been entrusted under a government contract, and all their employees.
    (h) All other institutions and all their employees who are connected to any case being investigated by the Commission under this Act or any other law for the prevention and prohibition of corruption.
    (i) Private associations and organizations run for non-profit purposes.
    (j) All matters related to money or property obtained or received in the name of the people of the community of atolls, islands, or wards in connection with the affairs of that community.
    (k) Foreign parties who participate in any form in a transaction conducted in the Maldives in connection with a case being investigated by the Commission, or who are known to the Commission to be participating, or whose participation is deemed plausible by the Commission.

Action to be Taken by the Commission after Investigating a Case

25.
(a) After investigating and concluding a case, the Commission shall act in one of the following ways:
1. If the case does not involve an offense of corruption, to decide that the case does not involve an offense of corruption and to close the case;
2. If the case involves an offense of corruption and the Commission believes that there is sufficient evidence and proof to prove it in court, to send the case to the Office of the Prosecutor General;
3. In addition to acting as specified in subsections (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this Article, if the matter has arisen due to an issue in the administration of an institution specified in Article 24 of this Act, to order that institution to rectify the matter.
(b) After investigating and concluding a case, the Commission shall provide a report on the case to the party that submitted the case if requested, and shall provide a copy of the report to the party identified by the Commission as being responsible in the matter.

Opportunity to Speak

    The person accused in a case investigated and inquired into by the Commission shall be given the opportunity to speak in his or her defense or to be represented by a legal counsel in his or her defense. If such an opportunity has not been given to him or her by the Commission, a decision made by the Commission in relation to that case shall not be considered a valid decision.

Compliance with the Decisions of the Commission

27.
(a) It is mandatory for Maldivian citizens and persons within the jurisdiction of the Republic of Maldives under its Constitution to comply with an order of the Commission to appear before it, to provide information, to submit a document, or to do or not to do an act under a power vested in the Commission in connection with a responsibility it has to discharge.
(b) If a person fails to comply with an order of the Commission as specified in subsection (a) of this Article, or acts in a manner that brings the honor of the Commission into disrepute, the punishment for such a person shall be imprisonment for a period of 1 (one) month, or house arrest for a period of 3 (three) months, or a fine of MVR 3,000 (three thousand).

Abstaining from Cases with a Conflict of Interest

28.
(a) A member of the Commission shall not allow any conflict to arise between his or her official duties and his or her personal interests.
(b) For the purpose of the principle stated in subsection (a) of this Article regarding a conflict of interest of a member of the Commission, a conflict of interest of the spouse of a member of the Commission, his or her children, and other persons directly under his or her care shall also be considered a conflict of interest of that member.
(c) If a situation arises or is believed to be likely to arise in the investigation of a case by the Commission where a conflict of interest of a member of the Commission may arise, he or she shall, after stating the matter to the Commission, recuse himself or herself from investigating that case. And he or she shall not exert any influence on any party to any extent in the investigation of that case. And that person shall not participate to any extent thereafter in the decision of that case.
(d) If the President of the Commission believes, based on reasonable grounds, that the participation of a particular member in the investigation of a particular case or in the doing of a particular thing would constitute a conflict of interest, he or she may, after informing the member in writing with reasons, exclude that member from investigating that case.
(e) If the President of the Commission believes, based on reasonable grounds, that his or her participation in the investigation of a particular case would constitute a conflict of interest, he or she shall, after informing the Vice President of the Commission in writing, recuse himself or herself from investigating that case.
(f) The principles set out in subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this Article shall also apply, to the relevant extent, to the employees of the Commission.
(g) A violation by a member of the Commission of a principle set out in subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this Article shall be deemed to be the commission of an act unbecoming of his or her office, and shall be considered to give rise to a situation in which he or she may be removed from office.
(h) A violation by an employee of the Commission of a principle set out in subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this Article shall, notwithstanding any other provision in any other article of this Act or in any other law, be deemed to be the commission of an act unbecoming of his or her office, and shall be considered to give rise to a situation in which he or she may be removed from office.

Accountability of the Commission

28-1.
(a) The members of the Commission shall, in a manner determined by the People's Majlis, appear before the Majlis or a committee thereof, be accountable, and assume responsibility in the People's Majlis in relation to their duties. And in any matter that the People's Majlis needs to inquire into and look into regarding the functioning of the Commission or a matter being carried out by the Commission, they shall provide positive cooperation.
(b) Subsection (a) of this Article shall not prevent the Commission from withholding from the People's Majlis information that needs to be withheld in connection with an investigation being conducted by the Commission.

Appointment of the Secretary-General and Employees of the Commission

29.
(a) The Commission shall appoint a Secretary-General for the administrative management of the Commission. And the Secretary-General shall manage the administration of the Commission in accordance with the regulations made by the Commission.
(b) The Commission shall employ the necessary employees for the Commission and shall dismiss employees from employment.

Financial Matters

30.
(a) The funds necessary for the Commission to fully discharge its responsibilities shall be released to the Commission each year from the state treasury under a budget approved by the People's Majlis. For this purpose, the Commission shall, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, prepare its budget and submit it to the People's Majlis each year along with the state budget.
(b) Any financial assistance given to the Commission by any person, group, or foreign government shall not be used for any purpose other than to carry out the matters within the responsibilities of the Commission.
(c) The accounts of the Commission's income, expenditure, assets, and financial liabilities shall be maintained and audited in accordance with the regulations made by the Commission in consultation with the Auditor General, and a financial statement prepared thereafter shall be sent to the President of the Republic and the People's Majlis along with the annual report referred to in Article 31 of this Act.

Annual Report

31.
(a) An annual report on the activities of the Commission shall be sent by the Commission to the President of the Republic and the People's Majlis before the 28th day of February of each year.
(b) The annual report referred to in subsection (a) of this Article shall include the following matters that occurred during the period of the report:
1. The work done by the Commission;
2. The cases submitted to the Commission;
3. The cases decided by the Commission and the manner in which those cases were decided;
4. The cases under investigation among the cases submitted to the Commission;
5. The pending cases among the cases submitted to the Commission;
6. The matters that the institutions specified in Article 24 of this Act have been ordered to reform or to take action on in accordance with this Act;
7. The actions taken by those institutions and the actions not taken by them among the matters ordered to be reformed or to have action taken on;
8. Details of administrative matters that occurred during that year in relation to the administration of the Commission and its employees.
(c) The Commission shall publish the report referred to in subsection (a) of this Article publicly within 14 (fourteen) days of sending it to the President of the Republic and the People's Majlis.
(d) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, the Commission shall have the discretion to submit a special report to the President of the Republic and the People's Majlis regarding a special situation if the Commission deems it necessary.

Formation of the Commission and Submission of Names of Members of the Commission

32.
(a) The Commission shall be formed and the members, President, and Vice President of the Commission shall be appointed in accordance with this Act within 60 (sixty) days of the first session of the first People's Majlis elected under Article 296 of the Constitution.
(b) To act in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article;
1. The President of the Republic shall send the names he or she proposes to be included in the Commission to the People's Majlis within 20 (twenty) days from the date of the first session of the first People's Majlis elected under subsection (b) of Article 296 of the Constitution.
2. Within 20 (twenty) days from the date on which the President of the Republic submits a name or names to the People's Majlis in accordance with subsections (b)(1) and (b)(3) of this Article, the People's Majlis shall make a decision and inform the President of the Republic.
3. If the People's Majlis does not approve a name submitted by the President of the Republic to the People's Majlis in accordance with this Article, the President of the Republic shall submit a new name or names to the People's Majlis within 5 (five) days from the date on which he or she is informed of this.

Transitional Anti-Corruption Commission

33.
(a) The Anti-Corruption Commission appointed in accordance with Article 289 of the Constitution shall have all the responsibilities and powers of the Commission appointed under this Act. And from the date this Act comes into force, all other articles of this Act, except for Articles 6 and 32, shall apply to the Anti-Corruption Commission formed in accordance with Article 289 of the Constitution.
(b) Upon the appointment of the Anti-Corruption Commission under subsection (a) of this Article, the Anti-Corruption Board that was in operation before the passing of this Act is hereby dissolved. And all cases and complaints submitted to that Board shall be transferred to the Anti-Corruption Commission appointed under subsection (a) of this Article.
(c) The Anti-Corruption Commission appointed under subsection (a) of this Article shall remain in existence until an Anti-Corruption Commission is formed in accordance with Article 32 of this Act.

Date of Commencement of this Act

    This Act shall come into force on the date it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

Repealed Law

    Upon the commencement of this Act, Article 27 of Law No. 2/2000 (Prevention and Prohibition of Corruption Act) is hereby repealed.

Making and Implementing Regulations

36.
(a) The regulations that need to be made under this Act shall be made and implemented by the Commission. Those regulations shall be made and finalized within 6 (six) months of the formation of the Commission in accordance with subsection (a) of Article 32 of this Act.
(b) Subsection (a) of this Article shall not prevent the Commission from amending a regulation made under subsection (a), or from making an additional regulation under this Act after the period specified in that subsection if the Commission deems it necessary.
(c) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, subsection (a) shall not prevent the Anti-Corruption Commission formed under Article 289 of the Constitution from making a regulation that it needs to make in order to discharge its duties and responsibilities.

Definitions

    Unless the context otherwise requires in this Act;
    "Auditor General" refers to the Auditor General appointed under Law No. 4/2007 (Audit Act).
    "Commission" refers to the Anti-Corruption Commission.
    "Institution" refers to all the institutions mentioned in Article 24 of this Act, including all individuals elected or appointed to that institution.
