
## **Anti-Terrorism Act**

### **Chapter One**
#### **General Provisions**

**1. Introduction and Name**

(a) This is an Act to prohibit and criminalize acts of terrorism, acts that facilitate terrorism, or acts related to terrorism, to determine the penalties for such offenses, and to set out special procedures for monitoring and controlling suspected persons in order to prevent such acts.

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Anti-Terrorism Act".

**2. Purpose**

The purposes of this Act are to:

(a) Define offenses of terrorism and determine their penalties;

(b) Facilitate the investigation of persons suspected of terrorism offenses, and to establish special procedures necessary for conducting such investigations in a robust and reasonably swift manner;

(c) In order to protect the general public from the activities of persons suspected of committing an act of terrorism, establish special procedures for the release, monitoring, and control of such persons in situations where there is insufficient evidence to detain them for investigation or where, after the conclusion of the investigation and before a court judgment, the court does not find it necessary to keep them in custody.

**3. Primacy of this Act**

Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any other law, this Act shall have precedence in the determination of offenses and penalties for a crime specified in this Act.

### **Chapter Two**
#### **Defining Offenses**

**4. Definition of Terrorism**

(a) In this Act, "terrorism" refers to the commission of an act specified in subsection (b) of this Article, for the purpose of achieving the following objectives:

1.  To advance a particular political, religious, or extremist ideology; and
2.  To compel the State or Government to perform or abstain from performing a specific act, or to create fear among the public or a segment of the public.

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this Article, an act shall be considered an act of terrorism if it is one of the following acts committed to achieve the objectives stated in that subsection:

1.  Causing serious bodily harm to a person;
2.  Endangering the life of a person other than the perpetrator;
3.  Forcibly concealing a person or holding them as a hostage;
4.  Causing extensive damage to property;
5.  Hijacking a passenger or cargo transport vessel;
6.  Creating a situation that poses a major threat to the health or safety of the public or a segment of the public;
7.  Causing major damage to a critical infrastructure facility or interrupting an essential service.

(c) Notwithstanding the objectives specified in subsections (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this Article, if a person commits an act of terrorism specified in subsection (b) of this Article using a military weapon or explosives, that act shall be included within the definition of terrorism for the purpose of subsection (a) of this Article.

(d) Notwithstanding subsection (b)(7) of this Article, the interruption of a public service due to a legally permitted strike, work stoppage, or peaceful assembly shall not be considered the commission of an act of terrorism as described in subsection (a) of this Article.

(e) For the purpose of this Article, "critical infrastructure facility" means any asset, system, or network, including physical resources, infrastructure resources, and facilities, the damage of which would have any adverse effect on the national security of the Maldives.

(f) For the purpose of this Article, "essential service" means the services of electricity, water, and sewerage, as well as communication services and public transport services.

**5. Committing an Act of Terrorism**

Unless expressly defined otherwise in this Act, "committing an act of terrorism" refers to carrying out any act of terrorism, including the commission of any of the terrorism offenses specified in Chapter Two of this Act.

**6. The Offense of Terrorism**

(a)
1. Committing an act of terrorism as defined in Article 4 of this Act is an offense.
2. Attempting to commit an act of terrorism as defined in Article 4 of this Act, or aiding, or participating in any form in such an act, is an offense.

(b) The penalty for committing an act specified in this Article is imprisonment for a term of 20 (twenty) to 25 (twenty-five) years.

(c) The penalty for attempting to commit, or aiding in, or participating in any form in an act specified in this Article is imprisonment for a term of 17 (seventeen) to 20 (twenty) years.

**7. Planning**

(a) Planning to commit an act of terrorism is an offense.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits the offense specified in this Article is imprisonment for a term of 17 (seventeen) to 20 (twenty) years.

**8. Encouraging an Act of Terrorism**

(a) Directly or indirectly encouraging the commission of an act of terrorism is an offense.

(b) In this Article, "encouraging" refers to a statement or utterance by a person which, in the view of the public or a segment of the public, encourages the commission, planning, or facilitation of an act of terrorism.

(c) In determining whether the matters in subsection (b) could be seen by the public or a segment of the public as encouraging an act of terrorism, the court shall have regard to the following:

(1) The content of the statement or utterance made by a person;
(2) The place and circumstances in which such a thing was said or such a statement was made; and
(3) The manner in which such an utterance or statement was communicated.

(d) The penalty for a person who commits the offense specified in this Article is imprisonment for a term of 10 (ten) to 15 (fifteen) years.

**9. Distributing and Publishing Documents of a Terrorist Organization**

(a) Distributing and publishing the documents of a terrorist organization for the purpose of achieving any of the following objectives is an offense:

(1) To directly or indirectly encourage the commission, planning, or facilitation of an act of terrorism;
(2) To aid in the commission or planning of an act of terrorism.

(b) In this Article, "distributing and publishing the documents of a terrorist organization" refers to committing any of the following acts:

(1) Distributing and circulating the documents of a terrorist organization;
(2) Selling and giving the documents of a terrorist organization;
(3) Providing a service that makes such materials available for the public to read, hear, or see;
(4) Providing or making available the documents of a terrorist organization through an electronic medium.

(c) In determining whether an objective specified in subsection (a) of this Article has been established, the court shall have regard to the following:

(1) Whether the public or a segment of the public, upon receiving the document, would see or perceive it as directly or indirectly encouraging the commission, planning, or facilitation of an act of terrorism; or
(2) Whether the public or a segment of the public, upon receiving the document, would perceive or see it as something useful for committing or planning an act of terrorism.

(d) For the purpose of this Article, in determining whether a document of a terrorist organization is a terrorist document, the court shall have regard to the following:

(1) Whether it was a document issued by a terrorist organization at the time it was distributed or published;
(2) The matters stated in the document and the circumstances in which the document was distributed or published.

(e) The penalty for a person who commits the offense specified in this Article is imprisonment for a term of 7 (seven) to 10 (ten) years.

**10. Encouraging and Spreading Information via TV, Radio, and the Internet**

(a) Committing any of the acts specified in Articles 8 and 9 of this Act via television, radio, or the internet is an offense.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits the offense specified in this Article is imprisonment for a term of 10 (ten) to 15 (fifteen) years.

**11. Providing and Receiving Training**

(a) In the following circumstances, it is an offense to provide any person with training in a skill specified in subsection (c) of this Article:

(1) The purpose of providing such training is to commit or plan an act of terrorism;
(2) The purpose of providing such training is to aid in the commission or planning of an act of terrorism.

(b) In the following circumstances, it is an offense to receive training in a skill specified in subsection (c) of this Article:

(1) The purpose of receiving such training is to commit or plan an act of terrorism;
(2) The purpose of receiving such training is to aid in the commission or planning of an act of terrorism.

(c) In this Article, "skill" refers to any of the following:

(1) The production or use of military weapons, explosives, a substance containing a destructive material, or a similar item;
(2) Learning techniques required to commit or plan an act of terrorism.

(d) For the purpose of this Article, this includes attending a terrorist training facility or any other place to provide or receive training.

(e) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in this Article is imprisonment for a term of 12 (twelve) to 15 (fifteen) years.

**12. Selling, Producing, Transporting, and Possessing Military Weapons, Explosives, and Substances Containing Destructive Material**

(a) For the purpose of committing, planning, or facilitating an act of terrorism, the production, possession, sale, giving to another person, transportation to another place, and trading of military weapons, explosives, or an item containing a destructive material is an offense.

(b) If a person who aids in the commission of an act specified in subsection (a) of this Article does so with the knowledge that it is for the purpose of committing, planning, or facilitating an act of terrorism, they are committing an offense.

(c) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in this Article is imprisonment for a term of 12 (twelve) to 15 (fifteen) years.

**13. Threatening or Intimidating to Commit an Act of Terrorism**

(a) It is an offense to threaten to commit an act of terrorism or to intimidate that an act of terrorism may be committed.

(b) The meaning of "threaten" in this Article includes a threat made in writing or verbally, using a means of communication or any other medium.

(c) The penalty for a person who commits the offense specified in this Article is imprisonment for a term of 4 (four) to 6 (six) years.

**14. Committing an Act of Terrorism as a Gang**

(a) Committing an act of terrorism as a gang or group to achieve any of the purposes stated in Article 4 of this Act is an offense.

(b) In this Article, "gang" refers to associations and groups formed by three or more persons whose primary activity includes the commission of criminal offenses.

(c) The penalty for a person who commits the offense specified in this Article is imprisonment for a term of 12 (twelve) to 15 (fifteen) years.

**15. Participating in a Terrorist Organization**

(a) In the following circumstances, a person who commits the following acts is committing an offense:

(1) Participating in the operation of a terrorist organization;
(2) Being a member of a terrorist organization;
(3) Recruiting a person to join a terrorist organization to participate in its operation;
(4) Controlling in any way the activities of a terrorist organization, and giving instructions on how to carry out those activities.

(b) In this Article, "terrorist organization" means the following:

(1) A group whose members work for a common public purpose, and who have committed two or more acts involving violence, destruction, or the threat of either, as part of a plan or purpose carried out through the members of the group or persons affiliated with the group; or
(2) A group whose purpose or objective, as publicly declared or accepted, is to commit such crimes or to threaten to do so; or
(3) An organization designated as a terrorist organization by the Maldivian government in accordance with Article 18 of this Act.

(c) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in this Article is imprisonment for a term of 10 (ten) to 15 (fifteen) years.

**16. Going to War and Going to a War Zone**

(a) It is an offense to do any of the following, except with special permission from the Maldivian government:
    1. Go to war;
    2. Go to or be in a war zone.

(b) It is an offense to do any of the following:
    1. Send a person to war;
    2. Attempt to send a person to war or encourage it.

(c) Attempting to commit an offense specified in subsection (a)(1) of this Article, or aiding in its commission, or participating in any form in its commission, is an offense.

(d) Attempting to commit an offense specified in subsection (a)(2) of this Article, or aiding in its commission, or participating in any form in its commission, is an offense.

(e) For the purpose of this Article, "going to war" means leaving the Maldives for any of the following purposes:
    1. To participate in a war conducted by a terrorist organization or terrorists not affiliated with such an organization in a foreign country;
    2. To plan or prepare to commit acts of terrorism, or to participate in or aid in the commission of such acts;
    3. To provide or receive training to commit acts of terrorism.

(f) For the purpose of this Article, "war zone" means an area designated under Article 18 of this Act among the areas outside the Maldives where a terrorist organization or terrorists not affiliated with such an organization are conducting a war.

(g) Unless proven otherwise, except in a situation specified in subsection (i) of this Article, going to a war zone shall be considered as going to that zone for the purpose of going to war.

(h) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, it shall not be considered an offense to go to or be in a war zone for any of the following purposes:
    1. To provide humanitarian assistance to people affected by war;
    2. To enforce a court order;
    3. To carry out a task assigned by the government of another country;
    4. To carry out a task assigned by the UN or a UN agency;
5. To carry out authorized journalistic work;
6. To carry out special work authorized by the government by a private association or organization;
7. To carry out any other matter authorized by the government.

(i) For the purpose of achieving an objective specified in subsections (h)(1), (h)(5), (h)(6), and (h)(7) of this Article, any person may go to a war zone and stay in such a zone only after applying to the Ministry for permission and obtaining written permission.

(j) Notwithstanding subsection (i) of this Article, an officer of the Maldives National Defense Force or the Maldives Police Service does not need to obtain the permission specified in subsection (i) of this Article to go to or stay in a war zone to carry out official work of the institution to which the officer belongs.

(k) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in subsection (a)(1) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 9 (nine) to 12 (twelve) years.

(l) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in subsection (a)(2) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 5 (five) to 7 (seven) years.

(m) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in subsection (b) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 10 (ten) to 15 (fifteen) years.

(n) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in subsection (c) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 5 (five) to 7 (seven) years.

(o) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in subsection (d) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 3 (three) to 5 (five) years.

(p) A person who returns to the Maldives after going to a war as specified in subsection (a) of this Article or after going to a war zone shall be subject to the measures specified in Chapter Eight of this Act. In addition, measures specified in Chapter Six of this Act may be taken against such a person.

**16-1. Supporting a Terrorist Organization**

(a) In the following circumstances, a person who commits the following acts is committing an offense:
    1. Supporting or calling for support for a terrorist organization;
    2. Defending the actions of a terrorist organization and advocating that such actions are justified; or expressing an opinion in a manner that suggests one is a supporter of a particular terrorist organization, while being reckless as to whether the recipient of such an opinion may be encouraged to support a terrorist organization by relying on that opinion;
    3. Knowingly organizing, managing, or assisting in organizing or managing a meeting held to call for support for a terrorist organization, to promote the activities of a terrorist organization, or to give an opportunity to speak or make a speech to a person belonging to a terrorist organization, or a person claiming to belong to a terrorist organization, or a person who openly supports a terrorist organization;
    4. Knowingly speaking or making a speech at a meeting held to call for support for a terrorist organization or to promote the activities of a terrorist organization;
    5. Wearing an item of clothing that suggests membership in or support for a terrorist organization, or possessing or using a document, drawing, or photograph that could reasonably have such a connotation.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in subsections (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), and (a)(4) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 3 (three) to 5 (five) years.

(c) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in subsection (a)(5) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 1 (one) to 3 (three) years.

**17. Offenses Committed Outside the Maldives**

(a) An act of terrorism specified in this Act, regardless of where it is committed, shall be an offense under this Act.

(b) In the circumstances specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the commission of any offense specified in this Act is a matter for which the State has the power to prosecute under this Act.

**18. Designating Terrorist Organizations and War Zones**

(a) For the purpose of Article 15(b)(3) and Article 16(f) of this Act, terrorist organizations and war zones shall be designated by the President of the Republic in consultation with the National Security Council.

(b) The list of terrorist organizations or the list of war zones designated by the President of the Republic under subsection (a) of this Article shall be reviewed at least once every 12 (twelve) months.

(c) After reviewing the list of terrorist organizations or the list of war zones under subsection (b) of this Article, the President of the Republic has the power to make additions and deletions to those lists in consultation with the National Security Council.

(d) The list of terrorist organizations and war zones designated by the President of the Republic under subsection (a) of this Article, and the additions and deletions made to those lists under subsection (c) of this Article, shall be published in the Government Gazette.

**19. The Foremost Authority in Preventing Acts of Terrorism**

Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act, the foremost authority for taking measures to stop the acts of terrorism specified in Chapter Two of this Act shall be the body designated by the President of the Republic to carry out counter-terrorism work.

### **Chapter Three**
#### **Disclosure of Terrorism-related Information and Intelligence Sharing**

**19-1. Disclosure of Terrorism-related Information**

If any person obtains any information that an act of terrorism specified in this Act is about to be committed, they must report it to the Maldives Police Service. If that information is information that must be shared with any intelligence agency under Article 19-3 of this Act, the Maldives Police Service must share that information with that agency.

**19-2. Terrorism-related Intelligence Agencies**

For the purpose of this Act, the following agencies shall be considered terrorism-related intelligence agencies:
(a) Maldives National Defense Force;
(b) Maldives Police Service;
(c) Maldives Customs Service;
(d) Maldives Immigration;
(e) The Financial Intelligence Unit of the Maldives Monetary Authority.

**19-3. Framework for Exchanging Terrorism-related Intelligence and Information**

(a) For the secure exchange of terrorism-related intelligence and information, the Minister shall establish a relevant framework under this Act, and shall monitor and oversee the exchange of terrorism-related intelligence and information in accordance with that framework.

(b) The framework established under subsection (a) of this Article shall state the manner in which intelligence and information that needs to be shared with foreign countries and international organizations, from the terrorism-related intelligence and information received by the agencies specified in Article 19-2 of this Act, must be shared.

(c) The terrorism-related intelligence agencies specified in Article 19-2 of this Act must exchange important terrorism-related information among themselves in accordance with the framework established under subsection (a) of this Article.

(d) The capability to obtain, collect, and analyze terrorism-related intelligence must be established within the intelligence agencies specified in Article 19-2 of this Act.

(e) In addition to the intelligence agencies specified in Article 19-2 of this Act, if any government agency obtains important terrorism-related information within its area of work, it must, without delay, share that information with the relevant agency among those specified in that Article.

### **Chapter Four**
#### **Powers to Prevent Acts of Terrorism**

**20. Suspension of Certain Constitutional Rights**

(a) For a person arrested or detained on suspicion of an offense included in Chapter Two of this Act, the rights guaranteed by the Constitution, which are specified in this Chapter, may be suspended to the extent specified in those Articles.

(b) The fundamental rights suspended under this Chapter are suspended under Article 16(a) of the Constitution.

(c) In determining whether those rights are suspended to that extent in accordance with Article 16(a) of the Constitution, the court shall consider that the People's Majlis has, under this Act, had regard to the 6 (six) points specified in Article 16(c) of the Constitution in suspending those fundamental rights to that extent.

**22. Arrest without a Court Order**

(a) If there are reasonable grounds to believe that a person suspected of attempting to commit an offense specified in Articles 6, 7, 12, and 14 of this Act will commit the suspected offense if immediate action is not taken, the police have the power to arrest that person without a court order.

(b) In the event that an offense specified in Article 6 of this Act is committed, the police have the power to arrest a person suspected of committing that offense without a court order.

(c) The police have the power to arrest a person suspected of committing an offense specified in Article 16 of this Act without a court order.

(d) A person shall be arrested under subsections (a), (b), or (c) of this Article with the permission of an officer of the rank of Sub-Inspector of Police or higher.

(e) In arresting a person under subsections (a), (b), or (c) of this Article, and after the arrest, the police shall follow the procedures specified in Articles 40(b) and (f), 42, 43, 44, and 45 of the Criminal Procedure Act (Law No. 12/2016).

(f) The Maldives Police Service has the power to detain a person arrested under subsections (a), (b), or (c) of this Article in custody for 48 (forty-eight) hours without a court order.

(g) In arresting a person under this Article, the police shall take all legally permissible measures necessary at that moment to minimize all foreseeable harm that may result from the act of terrorism the arrested person is suspected of committing.

(h) If there is sufficient evidence to believe that a person who can be arrested without a court order under subsections (a), (b), or (c) of this Article is in a private place, the police have the power to enter that place to arrest that person, and to remain in that place for a time reasonable to do so, without a court order.

(i) If the private place referred to in subsection (h) of this Article is an uninhabited, abandoned place, and there is sufficient evidence to believe that a person specified in subsections (a), (b), or (c) of this Article is in that place, the police have the power to enter that place to arrest that person, and to remain in that place for a time reasonable to do so, without a court order.

(j) In entering private places under this Article, the police shall follow the procedures specified in Articles 30(d), (f), (g), (h), and (i) of the Criminal Procedure Act (Law No. 12/2016).

**22-1. Search of Persons without a Court Order**

(a) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any other law, if there is a suspicion based on reasonable grounds that a person suspected of an offense of terrorism specified in this Act has in their possession an item that could be used to commit an offense specified in this Act or an item that could be used as evidence of such an offense, the police have the power to search such a person without a court order.

(b) The police have the power to carry out the actions specified in Article 38(f) of the Criminal Procedure Act (Law No. 12/2016) in relation to a person searched under subsection (a) of this Article.

(c) If there is reasonable cause to believe that a person searched under subsection (a) of this Article has concealed on their body an item related to the suspected offense, the police have the authority to search them in a manner that exposes their sexual organs, with the permission of an officer of the rank of Sub-Inspector of Police or higher, without a court order.

(d) In conducting a search under subsection (a) of this Article, the police shall follow Articles 38(g), (h), and (i) of the Criminal Procedure Act (Law No. 12/2016).

**22-2. Search of Private Places After Arrest**

(a) In a situation where a person specified in subsections (a), (b), or (c) of Article 22 is arrested from a private place under subsection (h) of that Article, if there is reasonable cause to believe that evidence related to an offense specified in Articles 6, 7, 12, 14, and 16 of this Act is in that place, that place may be searched in accordance with this Article to find that item, and for a time reasonable to do so.

(b) A private place may be searched under subsection (a) of this Article only if the police officer who arrested the suspect believes, based on reasonable grounds, that the following circumstances exist, and after obtaining the permission of a police officer of the rank of Executive Officer or higher:
    1. There is reasonable cause to believe that evidence sought in connection with the offense is in that place; and
    2. There is reasonable cause to believe that the evidence may be useful to be presented in court as evidence to prove the offense; and
    3. There is a reasonable cause to believe that if the place is not searched at that time, the evidence related to the offense may be concealed, destroyed, lost, or altered.

(c) A search under this Article shall be conducted after appointing an officer responsible for the search, under the supervision of that officer.

(d) When a private place is searched under this Article, if the owner of the place is present, the search must be conducted in their presence. If the owner of the place is not present, the search must be conducted in the presence of another person who can protect their interests.

(e) A private place may be searched under this Article only for a time reasonable to find the evidence specified in subsection (a) of this Article believed to be in that place. And such a search shall not exceed 6 (six) hours.

(f) If a search of a private place under this Article is requested for longer than the time specified in subsection (e), it must be done with a court order.

(g) The police officers searching a private place under this Article may do the following:
    1. If there is an item that can be used as evidence in that place, and if the officer believes there is an opportunity to conceal, destroy, or alter that item, to seize that item;
    2. To take photographs and/or videos of the place and any relevant items in it.

(h) Notwithstanding subsection (g) of this Article, the police do not have the power to seize items under diplomatic immunity, items under legal privilege, and any other items privileged under a law, or to take photographs and/or videos of such items.

(i) The searching officer shall prepare an inventory of the property seized under subsection (g) of this Article. This shall be done in the presence of another police officer, and the owner of the place or, in their absence, a person who can protect the owner's interests. A copy of the inventory shall be given by the police officer to the owner of the place, or, in their absence, to the person who can protect the owner's interests.

(j) The police officer in charge of searching a private place under this Article shall record information related to the search in writing. In doing so, the record must state the time of entry into the searched place, the persons present there, the officer responsible for the search, the searching officers, the type of evidence being sought, and the details of every item taken from the searched place, in a way that the location from which the item was taken is known.

(k) The information recorded under subsection (j) of this Article must state the name and rank of the executive officer who authorized the search under this Article, the time the permission was given, and the scope of the search authorized by that officer. The record must be signed by the searching officers as well as the officer who gave the permission.

(l) The information specified in subsection (j) of this Article must be recorded in writing before leaving the place after completing the search and leaving the premises.

**23. Right to Legal Counsel**

(a) A person arrested under this Act shall be given the legal warning required under Article 42(a) of the Criminal Procedure Act (Law No. 12/2016), and informed that they have the right to legal counsel.

(b) If a person in police custody so desires, they have the right to have their legal counsel present with them during questioning. And, if they request it, the police must provide them with that opportunity in accordance with this Act.

(c) After giving the legal warning provided by the police at the time of arrest, and after ensuring that the person has understood the matters contained in that warning, the police may question a person who has waived their right to legal counsel.

(d) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of this Article, if, in the opportunity given to arrange a legal counsel under that subsection, a legal counsel has not appeared within 12 (twelve) hours without a reasonable cause, the police may proceed with questioning them.

(e) Notwithstanding subsection (d) of this Article, if, in the opportunity given to the person in custody to arrange a legal counsel, the counsel they appoint has not appeared after 12 (twelve) hours due to the counsel's negligence, the arrested person shall be given a further opportunity of 6 (six) hours to appoint another counsel and for that counsel to appear. And if, after the expiry of those 6 (six) hours, a legal counsel has not appeared without a reasonable cause, the police may proceed with questioning them.

(f) For the purpose of subsections (d) and (e) of this Article, a reasonable cause means a reason that prevents appearing at the appointed time, in a situation that is not due to the counsel's negligence.

**24. Meeting with a Legal Counsel**

(a) In the following circumstances, the opportunity for a person arrested under this Act to meet and communicate privately with their legal counsel may be withheld for a period of 7 (seven) days from the time of their arrest:

    1. There are reasonable grounds to believe that if the person in custody is given the opportunity to meet and communicate privately with their legal counsel, a person being sought by the police on suspicion of committing an offense specified in Chapter Two of this Act may be alerted;
    2. There are reasonable grounds to believe that if the person in custody is given the opportunity to meet and communicate privately with their legal counsel, evidence of an offense specified in Chapter Two of this Act may be destroyed or evidence may be tampered with;
    3. There are reasonable grounds to believe that if the person in custody is given the opportunity to meet and communicate privately with their legal counsel, an act of an offense specified in Chapter Two of this Act may occur;
    4. There are reasonable grounds to believe that if the person in custody is given the opportunity to meet and communicate privately with their legal counsel, a person may suffer physical injury; or
    5. There are reasonable grounds to believe that if the person in custody is given the opportunity to meet and communicate privately with their legal counsel, the recovery of property obtained by committing an offense specified in Chapter Two of this Act may be hindered.

(b) The opportunity for an arrested person to meet and communicate privately with their legal counsel can be withheld under subsection (a) of this Article only under the written permission of an officer of the rank of Sub-Inspector of Police or higher.

(c) If, during the period when the opportunity for an arrested person to meet and communicate privately with their legal counsel is withheld under subsection (a) of this Article, it appears that the reason for withholding that opportunity has ceased to exist, that opportunity must be restored.

(d) If the opportunity for an arrested person to meet and communicate privately with their legal counsel is withheld, the reason for it must be given in writing to that person and to the counsel they have appointed.

(e) If the police find that the situation that led to the withholding of the opportunity for an arrested person to meet and communicate privately with their legal counsel under subsection (a) of this Article persists, the period may be extended with the permission of the Prosecutor General, upon submission of a request to the Prosecutor General stating the reason. In such cases, the Prosecutor General shall extend the period, after verifying that the situation persists, for a maximum of 7 (seven) days at a time.

(f) The regulations made under this Act shall specify the procedures to be followed in withholding the right of a suspect to meet privately with their legal counsel under this Article.

**26. Detention**

(a) A person arrested under subsections (a), (b), or (c) of Article 22 of this Act shall be brought before a judge within a maximum of 48 (forty-eight) hours of their arrest, to determine whether their detention is in accordance with legal principles.

(b) A person arrested on suspicion of committing an offense specified in this Act, other than the offenses specified in Articles 6, 7, 12, 14, and 16, shall be brought before a judge within a maximum of 24 (twenty-four) hours of their arrest, to determine whether their detention is in accordance with legal principles.

(c) Upon a person arrested on suspicion of an offense specified in this Act being brought before a judge to decide on their detention, in determining whether their arrest is in accordance with legal principles, the judge shall consider whether they were arrested because there were reasonable grounds to believe that they committed or might commit the suspected offense, and whether the police followed the required procedures. And if the following circumstances exist, the judge shall order their detention:
    1. In a situation where the police have received intelligence that an act of terrorism may occur in the near future, if the police investigation has evidence to believe that the suspect has information needed to stop it; or
    2. In a situation where the police have received intelligence that an act of terrorism may occur in the near future, and if the police investigation has evidence that evidence of the planning of that act can only be obtained by questioning the suspect; or
    3. If the police investigation has evidence to believe that if the suspect is released, they may conceal evidence related to an act of terrorism or attempt to influence a person who is to give evidence in such a case; or
    4. If the police investigation has evidence to believe that the suspect may flee; or
    5. If the police investigation has evidence to believe that if the suspect is released from custody, a danger to public safety may arise.

(d) For the purpose of subsection (c) of this Article, a police intelligence report stating that one of the circumstances described in that paragraph exists, and which fulfills the conditions specified in Article 27(a)(7) of this Act, shall be considered as sufficient evidence obtained by the police investigation.

(e) The standard that the court shall apply in determining whether a circumstance specified in subsection (c) of this Article exists is the civil standard. In this regard, the court shall look at whether, based on the matters presented by the police, the existence of that circumstance is more likely than its non-existence.

(f) Upon being notified by a letter at least 2 (two) hours before the time the person in custody is brought to court to decide on their detention under this Article, the court shall arrange all administrative matters and the time for conducting the hearing to decide on the detention.

(g) The Maldives Police Service has the authority to submit the forms and other administrative documents required to be submitted to the court for holding the hearing to decide on detention in court under this Article, along with the arrested person when they are brought to court.

(h) When the court sets a time for bringing the person in custody to court to decide on their detention, the police shall immediately inform the counsel they have appointed of that time.

(i) The administrative documents that need to be submitted by the party requesting detention and their counsel for holding the hearing to decide on detention in court under this Act may be submitted to the court session during the court hearing.

(j) In a case heard under this Article, the judge shall extend a person's detention period, if for the first time, for a period not exceeding 7 (seven) days. And the maximum period for which a person's detention can be extended under this Article is a total of 14 (fourteen) days.

(k) Notwithstanding subsection (j) of this Article, if there is sufficient evidence to suspect that the suspect committed the offense, and if the judge believes that if they are released from custody a situation specified in subsections (1) to (4) of Article 60(b) of the Criminal Procedure Act (Law No. 12/2016) may arise, the judge shall order them to be detained until the end of their trial.

(l) In the situation specified in subsection (k) of this Article, if there is not sufficient evidence to suspect that the person in custody committed the offense, but if there is a reason specified in subsections (1) to (4) of Article 60(b) of the Criminal Procedure Act (Law No. 12/2016), and if there is some level of evidence against them in that case, the judge, having regard to the matters specified in Article 59 of that Act, may order them to be detained for a period not exceeding 15 (fifteen) days.

(m) If the police wish to detain the person detained under subsection (l) of this Article further after the expiry of the period specified in that subsection, upon them being brought before a judge before the expiry of that period, the judge has the discretion to grant permission to detain them for a further period. However, if sufficient evidence linking them to the offense has not yet been obtained, the extended period shall not exceed 15 (fifteen) days.

(n) Notwithstanding subsection (m) of this Article, if, while they are in custody, sufficient evidence is obtained to suspect that they committed the offense, the judge shall order them to be detained for a period longer than 15 (fifteen) days, or until the end of the trial.

(o) Article 60(i) of the Criminal Procedure Act (Law No. 12/2016) shall not apply to a person detained until the end of their trial under subsections (k) or (n) of this Article. However, this Article does not prevent the Prosecutor General from submitting a request to the court to annul the order to detain them until the end of the trial, if, having regard to all the circumstances of the case, the Prosecutor General finds that there is no reason to detain them until the end of the trial and that there is no possibility of a danger to public safety if they are released from custody.

**27. Admissible Evidence**

(a) The following types of evidence obtained in the investigation of an offense of terrorism specified in this Act shall be considered admissible evidence in the prosecution of that offense:
    1. A confession or admission made by a person in court, orally, in writing, or in any other way, that they committed an offense;
    2. A statement made by a person on their deathbed that supports a fact relevant to the prosecution, upon their death;
    3. A statement given voluntarily by the suspect, without any coercion, in the presence of their legal counsel, with audio and video recording;
    4. Information of any act that indicates the existence of an intention to cause a specific event related to the criminal act or that the suspect was prepared to cause such an event;
    5. Forensic evidence;
    6. Official documents;
    7. A police intelligence report that meets the following conditions:
        i. The report contains more than one matter that shows that the existence of the matters stated in the report is more likely than their non-existence.
        ii. The report is accompanied by other circumstantial evidence that supports the matters stated in the report.
    8. A medical report stating that an injury sustained by the suspect's body is an injury caused by a military weapon, as an indication that the person participated in a war;
    9. A published document, drawing, photograph, or a document, drawing, photograph, audio, or video sent through a means of communication;
    10. A document or report that shows the possession of documents, audio, or video that can be used to receive training on how to produce or use a military weapon or device;
    11. An audio and video recording of a statement given to an investigative body by a family member of the suspect, stating that the suspect has committed, is attempting to commit, or is in the process of committing an offense specified in this Act;
    12. An official document showing that a person has traveled to a war zone;
    13. Eyewitness testimony;
    14. Any other thing that is admissible as evidence in law.

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a)(5) of this Article, "forensic evidence" includes the following:
    1. Information obtained through scientific and technological means, including fingerprints, DNA information, photographs, internal body photographs, body samples, and internal body samples;
    2. Information obtained from an autopsy performed on a deceased person's body;
    3. Information identified after analyzing any physical evidence found from an item used in committing an offense, or the perpetrator and the victim, or an item related to the offense, or the crime scene.

(c) For the purpose of subsection (a)(6) of this Article, "official document" means any item in which any kind of information has been created, included, or registered by an enforcement agency of a foreign country or the Maldivian state, through any of the following means:
    1. Something in writing or in print (whether a chart, plan, graph, or drawing);
    2. A computer file prepared to be accessible by electronic means;
    3. A photograph;
    4. A disk, tape, film, or roll on which sound or other such data is stored;
    5. A film, negative, or any other thing on which a scene or other such data is stored.

(d) To prove that a person has committed an offense of terrorism specified in this Act, evidence obtained by investigative bodies from the following parties may be used as evidence against that person. And the judge shall consider such evidence as evidence that is admissible and acceptable to the court:
    1. An international intelligence or investigative agency;
    2. An intelligence or investigative agency of a foreign country; and
    3. A family member, close relative, or friend of the suspect.

(e) Except in a situation where the Maldivian government has an agreement with a foreign country regarding the exchange of legal assistance in criminal matters, this Act does not prevent the obtaining of evidence from a foreign party specified in subsections (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this Article, and the acceptance of evidence from such a party, under the procedures determined under an agreement made in that regard.

(f) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any other law, in a prosecution brought against a person in connection with an offense of terrorism specified in this Act, this Act does not prevent the submission of evidence that was not available at the time of filing the charge, but is required to prove the charge, at the trial stage after the charge has been filed.

**27-1. Proportion of Evidence**

Notwithstanding any other law specifying the standard of evidence required to prove a criminal offense or the type of evidence admissible in court, for the purpose of this Act or in a prosecution under this Act, if there are at least four types of evidence of the kind specified in Article 27(a) of this Act to prove an offense specified in Chapter Two of this Act, that evidence shall be considered as evidence obtained to the extent required to prove to the court beyond a reasonable doubt that a person has committed an offense, as specified in Article 51(a) of the Constitution.

**28. Seizure of Items**

(a) The police have the power to seize and hold items found in the investigation of an offense included in Chapter Two of this Act.

(b) Except for items that must be destroyed immediately for safety and security reasons, items seized or held in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article shall be destroyed after the court has made a decision on the matter.

(c) The regulations made under this Act shall specify how to deal with items seized or held in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article.

**28-1. Time Limits for Investigation and Prosecution**

(a) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any other law, if a person charged with an offense of terrorism specified in this Act is a person detained under this Act, the investigation of that case must be completed and submitted to the Prosecutor General's Office within 45 (forty-five) days from the date they are first brought before a judge to determine whether their detention is in accordance with legal principles, or from the date the case is submitted to the court requesting their detention under Article 26 of this Act. And the Prosecutor General must file charges against them within 15 (fifteen) days from the date the case is submitted to the Prosecutor General's Office.

(b) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any other law, if a person charged with an offense of terrorism specified in this Act is a person released after being first brought before a judge, the investigation of that case must be completed and submitted to the Prosecutor General's Office within 75 (seventy-five) days from the date they were first brought to court. And the Prosecutor General must file charges against them within 15 (fifteen) days from the date the case is submitted to the Prosecutor General's Office.

(c) Notwithstanding the time limits set in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article, efforts must be made to complete the investigation of such cases and send them to the Prosecutor General as soon as possible, even before the expiry of that period. And the Prosecutor General must endeavor to file charges in the case as soon as possible, even before the expiry of the period set for the Prosecutor General to file charges in a case.

(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of this Article, if, due to the nature of the offense and the case of which a person mentioned in those two paragraphs is suspected, it is not a case whose investigation can be completed within the period specified in those two paragraphs, a request may be submitted to the Prosecutor General to extend the period for completing the investigation of that case, stating the reason. However, the period extended by the Prosecutor General in such a case shall not exceed 45 (forty-five) days under subsection (a) of this Article. And the period extended under subsection (b) of this Article shall not exceed 75 (seventy-five) days.

(e) A request to extend the period under subsection (d) of this Article shall be submitted by the law enforcement agency. And if the Prosecutor General extends the period in such a case, it must be stated in writing.

(f) Even in a case where the investigation period is extended under subsection (d) of this Article, the Prosecutor General must file charges against that person within a maximum of 15 (fifteen) days from the date the period expires. And when filing charges in this manner, if the Prosecutor General has extended the investigation period, a document stating the reason for extending the period must be submitted to the court along with the charge in that case. And if a charge is submitted to the court after the period specified in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article, the reason for it must be submitted to the court in writing.

(g) If the investigation of the case is not completed within the period extended under subsection (d) of this Article, and if the investigation was not completed due to a matter beyond the control of the police, a request may be submitted to the Prosecutor General to extend the period one more time. And having regard to the reason why the investigation of that case was not completed, the Prosecutor General may extend the period for a period not exceeding 15 (fifteen) days.

(h) Even in a case where the investigation period is extended under subsection (g) of this Article, the time limits and procedures specified in subsection (f) of this Article regarding the filing of charges shall apply.

(i) If, within the periods specified in subsections (g) and (h) of this Article, the investigation of a person specified in subsections (a) or (b) of this Article is not completed and charges are not filed against them, charges shall not be filed against them except in the situation specified in subsection (j) of this Article.

(j) Notwithstanding that the investigation of a person specified in subsections (a) or (b) of this Article was not completed and charges were not filed against them within the periods specified in subsections (g) and (h) of this Article, this Article does not prevent the filing of charges against the suspect after re-investigating the case if new evidence is obtained in the case of which they are suspected.

(k) In a case where charges are filed after re-investigation under subsection (j) of this Article, the time limits and procedures specified in subsections (a) to (f) of this Article regarding the investigation and filing of charges in the case suspected of that person shall apply.

**28-2. No Release on Bail**

A person detained in a case suspected of an offense of terrorism specified in this Act shall not be released on bail.

**28-3. No Pardon and No Leniency in Punishment**

(a) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any other law, the offenses included in Articles 6 to 16-1 of this Act, with the exception of the offenses in Articles 9 and 13, are offenses for which pardon cannot be granted or punishment cannot be lightened.

(b) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any other law, the offenses specified in Articles 6, 7, 14, and 16(a) and (b) of this Act are offenses for which the term of punishment cannot be shortened or the type of punishment cannot be made lenient.

**28-4. Preventing Acts of Terrorism Committed with Military Weapons or Explosives**

(a) In a situation where information is received that an act of terrorism is about to be committed using military weapons or explosives, or in a situation where such an act has been committed, the Maldives National Defense Force shall take the lead in taking the necessary security measures to protect the society from the danger that may arise to the society as a result of that act.

(b) In the situation specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the Maldives National Defense Force shall take the necessary security measures to prevent the commission of an act of terrorism that is being committed or until the danger that has arisen as a result of an act of terrorism that has occurred is eliminated.

(c) An operational framework stating how the Maldives National Defense Force and the Maldives Police Service should act together in preventing an act of terrorism as specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be established under this Act.

(d) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, all matters related to the criminal investigations that need to be conducted to prevent an act of terrorism or in connection with the occurrence of an act of terrorism shall be carried out by the Maldives Police Service. In this regard, this Article does not prevent the Maldives Police Service from taking the measures required by law as an investigative body, such as securing the crime scene for investigation, finding evidence, and preserving evidence, and other investigative steps.

**28-5. Situations Where the Criminal Procedure Act Applies**

In matters where specific procedures or time limits are not specified in this Act regarding the investigation of an offense specified in this Act, the arrest and detention of persons, and the filing of charges, the time limits and procedures specified in the Criminal Procedure Act (Law No. 12/2016) shall apply.

### **Chapter Five**
#### **Special Procedures for Monitoring and Control**

**29. Monitoring and Control Order**

(a) Among the persons suspected of committing a crime specified in this Act, the Minister may apply to the court for a monitoring and control order against persons who, based on a reasonable suspicion, are deemed to pose a threat to society.

(b) Such orders shall be called "MONICON orders".

(c) If the court issues such an order as specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the order shall be enforced by the police.

(d) This Act does not prevent the issuance of a MONICON order against a person more than once.

(e) In this Act, "court" in relation to a MONICON order refers to the High Court of the Maldives.

**30. Reasonable Suspicion**

In Article 29(a) of this Act, a "reasonable suspicion" refers to the Minister's belief, based on reasonable evidence or reasons, that one or more of the following is occurring or may occur:

(a) Believing that they are actively involved in committing a crime specified in this Act;
(b) Believing that they are planning, committing, facilitating, or aiding in a crime specified in this Act.

**31. Eligible Persons**

(a) The Minister shall apply for a MONICON order for a person who meets the conditions specified in this Article, based on a suspicion as specified in Article 30 of this Act.
    (2) A person suspected of committing or attempting to commit a crime mentioned in this Act; or
    (3) A person against whom an investigation or trial is ongoing under this Act.

(b) The Minister may apply for a MONICON order for a person as specified in subsection (a) of this Article if the following conditions are met:
    (1) There is an intelligence report concerning the person based on the suspected matter; or
    (2) The person has a criminal record with any law enforcement agency.

**32. Duration of a MONICON Order**

(a) The duration of a MONICON order is 1 (one) year.

(b) A MONICON order shall be deemed to have commenced on the date specified in the order as the commencement date.

(c) A MONICON order shall be deemed to have ended on the date specified in the order as the end date.

**33. Extension of a MONICON Order**

(a) If the Minister believes that the duration of a MONICON order needs to be extended, he may apply to the court for an extension of the order for another 1 (one) year.

(b) The maximum period for which a MONICON order can be extended under subsection (a) of this Article is 1 (one) year.

(c) In applying this Article, the special procedures in this chapter shall apply.

**34. Applying to the Court for a MONICON Order**

(a) The application submitted by the Minister to the court for a MONICON order shall include the following information:
    (1) The type of suspected crime;
    (2) Information identifying the suspected person;
    (3) The criminal record of the suspected person;
    (4) Evidence related to the suspicion;
    (5) The measure to be taken;
    (6) Further details related to the application.

(b) The Registrar shall accept an application submitted by the Minister under subsection (a) of this Article only if all the information in that subsection is included in the application.

(c) In subsection (a)(5) of this Article, "measure" refers to the monitoring and control measures specified in Chapter Five of this Act.

(d) In subsection (b) of this Article, "Registrar" refers to the Registrar of the High Court of the Maldives.

**35. Role of the Court Regarding an Application for a MONICON Order**

(a) Upon receiving an application as specified in Article 34(a) of this Act, the court shall issue a MONICON order after determining the following:
    (1) Determining whether the Minister's suspicion is a reasonable suspicion in accordance with Article 30 of this Act;
    (2) Determining whether the measures proposed by the Minister are proportionate to the suspicion.

(b) In deciding on the Minister's application, the court may act according to the following procedure:
    (1) Without bringing the suspected person to court;
    (2) Without informing the suspected person that an application has been made against them;
    (3) Without giving the suspected person or a second person representing them the opportunity to appear in court even if they know about it.

(c) If the court finds that the Minister's suspicion is not a reasonable suspicion as specified in subsection (a)(1) of this Article, the court shall decide that a MONICON order cannot be issued.

**36. Matters to be Included in a MONICON Order Issued by the Court**

The MONICON order issued by the court shall include the following information:
(1) The purpose and reason for issuing the order;
(2) Information identifying the person to whom the order is addressed;
(3) The type of suspected crime and the law that defines the crime;
(4) The measure or measures to be taken;
(5) The start date and end date of the MONICON order;
(6) If the judgment was made in absentia, that fact;
(7) The name and signature of the judge who delivered the judgment;
(8) The court and case number of the judgment;
(9) The seal of the court that delivered the judgment.

**37. Time Limit for the Court to Make a Decision on an Application**

(a) Within 24 (twenty-four) hours of receiving an application as specified in Article 34(a) of this Act, the court shall hold a hearing and make a decision on the application.

(b) In subsection (a) of this Article, "make a decision" refers to either issuing a judgment to issue a MONICON order or issuing a judgment that such an order cannot be issued.

**38. Serving a MONICON Order**

(a) A MONICON order shall be served directly to the person concerned by the police.

(b) If a person refuses to accept a MONICON order, the order shall be deemed to have been served if it is placed in the presence of that person and two witnesses.

(c) If a person cannot be found to serve a MONICON order, the order shall be deemed to have been served to that person by affixing a copy of the MONICON order to the outer door of the house or building where they reside.

**39. Requesting a Review of a Court Order**

(a) The person to whom a MONICON order is issued under this Act may apply to the same court for a review of the order within a maximum of 90 (ninety) days of its issuance.

(b) Upon receiving an application as specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the court shall accept the application and hold a review hearing.

(c) In the review hearing, the court shall ascertain the following:
    (1) Whether the conditions stated in this Act are met in the Minister's application;
    (2) Whether the suspicion still exists;
    (3) To determine whether the measure or measures in the MONICON order are necessary for the safety and security of the community at that time; and
    (4) To see if the necessity of the measure or measures still exists.

(d) In a review hearing, the court only has the following powers:
    (1) To revoke the MONICON order;
    (2) To revoke a measure or measures in the MONICON order;
    (3) To amend a measure or measures in the MONICON order;
    (4) With regard to the change made under subsections (2) and (3) of this section, to amend the end date of the MONICON order for the purpose of giving relief.

(e) Except in the circumstances in subsections (d)(1) and (d)(4) of this Article, in the other circumstances specified in that section, the MONICON order shall remain in effect until the date specified in the order.

(f) The court has the power to review a MONICON order once during its term. A second review can only be conducted if the court extends the duration of a MONICON order upon an application by the Minister under Article 33(a) of this Act, which will be a review of that extension.

**40. Appealing a MONICON Order**

(a) Every MONICON order issued under this Act is an order that can be appealed in accordance with Article 56 of the Constitution.

(b) Even if a MONICON order is appealed as specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the MONICON order shall remain in effect during the appeal period.

**41. Continuous Review of a MONICON Order**

(a) As long as a MONICON order is in effect, the Minister shall continue to review whether the circumstances under which the order was issued still exist.

(b) If, during a review as specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the Minister finds that the circumstances have ceased to exist, he shall decide to terminate the MONICON order or to lighten the measures as specified in Article 42 of this Act.

**42. Amending a MONICON Order**

(a) If the Minister sees fit, a MONICON order may be amended to meet the following conditions:
    (1) To lighten or completely stop the measures in the MONICON order;
    (2) The amendment to the MONICON order is perceived by the person to whom the order is addressed as a relief to the measures in the order.

(b) A MONICON order may be amended as specified in subsection (a) of this Article by a written document from the Minister.

(c) If the person to whom a MONICON order is addressed wishes to amend the measures taken against them, they may request it in a letter sent to the Minister.

(d) If the Minister receives a letter as specified in subsection (c) of this Article, he shall make a decision on the application within a maximum of 7 (seven) official days of receiving the letter and inform the person of the decision in writing.

(e) An amendment to a MONICON order shall take effect on the date specified by the Minister for the implementation of the amendment in the document, after the document of the amendment has been served to the person.

**43. Terminating a MONICON Order**

(a) If the Minister sees fit, a MONICON order may be terminated at any time while it is in effect by a written document from the Minister.

(b) A MONICON order shall be terminated on the date specified by the Minister in the document of termination.

(c) The person to whom a MONICON order is addressed may request the termination of the order against them in a letter sent to the Minister.

(d) If the Minister receives a letter as specified in subsection (c) of this Article, he shall make a decision on the application within a maximum of 7 (seven) official days of receiving the letter and inform the person of the decision in writing.

(e) A MONICON order terminated under this Article cannot be reinstated.

### **Chapter Six**
#### **Monitoring and Control Measures**

**44. General Principles for Taking Measures**

(a) The court has the power to take the measures specified in this chapter through a MONICON order to monitor and control a suspected person.

(b) Although the measures specified from Article 46 to Article 59 of this Act can be taken together through a MONICON order, for the purpose of this Act, these measures are, in their nature, separate measures.

**45. Implementing Monitoring and Control Measures on Suspected Minors**

Even if the person suspected under this Act is a minor under the age of 18 (eighteen) years, if that child has reached the age of 15 (fifteen) years, the monitoring and control measures specified in this Act may be implemented against that child.

**46. Monitoring and Control: Place of Residence**

(a) One of the following measures may be taken to monitor and control the place of residence of a suspected person:
    (1) Ordering the suspected person to reside in a specific place;
    (2) Ordering the suspected person to provide information about the people living or who will be living in their place of residence;
    (3) Prohibiting leaving or exiting a place of residence, an area, or an island at specific times.

(b) In subsection (a)(1) of this Article, "in a specific place" refers to one of the following places:
    (1) Their own home or the place where they are living;
    (2) Their own home or their parents' home if it is on another island;
    (3) Another house with which they have a connection or a house on another island;
    (4) If they do not have a place to live, a place determined by the court upon the Minister's proposal.

**47. Monitoring and Control: Travel**

(a) The suspected person may be prohibited from leaving a specific area or an island and from traveling outside that island or area.

(b) The suspected person may be prohibited from entering a specific area or an island and from traveling within that island or area.

(c) The suspected person may be prohibited from leaving the Maldives without the written permission of the Minister.

**48. Monitoring and Control: Money**

(a) One of the following measures may be taken to monitor and control the money of the suspected person:
    (1) Ordering the suspected person to provide their bank account information to the Minister;
    (2) Ordering the suspected person to provide an account statement showing their financial accounts to the Minister.

(b) In this Article, "the suspected person's bank account" refers to accounts in their own name and includes the account of a company under their control.

**49. Monitoring and Control: Property**

(a) To monitor and control the property of the suspected person, they may be ordered to disclose information about all property in their own possession and to show the property if requested.

(b) In this Article, property refers to the following, including:
    (1) Their own property;
    (2) Property over which they have control or an interest.

**50. Monitoring and Control: Communication Devices**

(a) One of the following measures may be taken to monitor and control all communication devices used by the suspected person:
    (1) Ordering them to show the communication device they use at any time if the Minister wishes to inspect it;
    (2) At the Minister's order, listening to, inspecting, monitoring, and recording all of the suspected person's communication devices.

(b) Items temporarily seized by the Minister as per subsection (a)(1) of this Article may be returned after taking the information contained in them.

(c) In this Article, "communication device" refers to various types of phones, various types of computers, tablets, and any other device that can be used for communication using a SIM, the internet, or any other means.

**51. Monitoring and Control: Ordering to Report to a Police Station**

(a) The suspected person may be ordered to report to a police station at a specific time, on specific days, and in a prescribed manner. When reporting in this way, they must comply with the instructions given by the police.

(b) When the court orders a measure under this Article, in islands where there is no police station, the island council may be authorized to do this.

**53. Monitoring and Control: Devices**

(a) To identify the actions of the suspected person, to know their whereabouts, and to identify their communication links, or to identify any other matter, electronic devices may be ordered to be installed on their body, in their place of residence, or in another place under their control.

(b) The device necessary for taking the measure specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be determined by the Minister in the MONICON order issued by the court upon his request.

(c) The person to whom a MONICON order is addressed must give their full cooperation for the installation of the device specified in subsection (a) of this Article. This includes:
    (1) If something is to be installed in their place of residence, entering that place and installing it, and doing what is necessary to install it (this includes drilling a hole in a wall, laying a cable, and other such things);
    (2) If something is to be installed on their body, remaining compliant until it is done;
    (3) Maintaining the installed device as instructed by the installer (this includes charging the batteries of devices that need charging according to the said rules, providing electricity, and other such things).

(d) To check if the items installed under this Article are in good condition and to carry out various tasks related to them, the court may be ordered to grant permission to the people doing that work to enter their house at the required times.

(e) The Minister has the discretion to entrust the tasks related to the items installed under this Article to a private party with the skills for that work.

**54. Entry, Search, and Seizure**

One of the following measures may be taken to enter, search, and seize the home of a suspected person:
(a) Stopping a person at any time and searching their body;
(b) Entering a place where a person to whom a MONICON order is to be served is believed to be, and searching that place to find that person;
(c) Even if it is not the address mentioned in the order, if the suspected person is suspected of living in a place, entering and searching it;
(d) After serving or during the process of serving a MONICON order to a person, searching the place where they are and searching their body.

**55. Entry and Search on Suspicion of a Person on a MONICON Order Fleeing**

If the Minister suspects that the suspected person may flee, a measure may be taken to enter the house or building where they are being kept, to check if they are there, and to search the place to gather information needed to find them.

**56. Entry and Search to Check Compliance with a MONICON Order**

A measure may be taken to enter and search the house or building where the suspected person is being kept at any time to check if they are complying with the measures taken against them.

**57. Seizure of Items**

(a) During an entry and search under this chapter, the following items may be seized in accordance with this Article:
    (1) Any item that can be used as evidence;
    (2) Items seized because it is believed that they may be concealed, lost, altered, damaged, or destroyed;
    (3) Any item that is seen to hinder the enforcement of an order issued or being enforced against that person;
    (4) Any item that is seen to be usable as evidence of a violation of an order issued against that person.

(b) Items shall be seized under this Article in the presence of the owner of the house or two witnesses.

(c) A list of the items seized under this Article shall be given by the police to the owner of the house, or a person representing them, or a person with such capacity, at the time of seizure.

**58. Fingerprints and Other Evidence**

(a) The court may order the suspected person to provide their fingerprints, urine, or a sample from any other part of their body to the police.

(b) To take a sample as specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the police may bring the person to a police station or order them to appear at a specific time.

(c) If the suspected person refuses to provide a sample as specified in subsection (a) of this Article, they are committing a crime.

**59. Taking Photographs**

In a MONICON order, the court may order the taking of photographs of the suspected person in accordance with this Article.
(a) Taking a photograph of the suspected person at a place and time determined by the Minister;
(b) Taking a photograph of the place where the suspected person lives or an item they possess or use.

### **Chapter Seven**
#### **Other Offenses**

**60. Violation of a MONICON Order**

(a) If a person against whom a measure has been taken under a MONICON order violates any measure of the MONICON order without a reasonable cause, they have committed a criminal offense.

(b) The penalty for the offense in subsection (a) of this Article is house arrest or imprisonment for a maximum of 18 (eighteen) months.

(c) If the Minister finds it necessary to detain a person who has committed an offense as specified in subsection (a) of this Article during the investigation and until a decision is made by the court, and requests it from the court in writing, the court shall comply and issue an order to detain that person in a place determined by the Minister until the investigation and trial are concluded.

**60-1. Failure to Provide Intelligence Information to the Required Party**

(a) In a situation where terrorism-related intelligence must be exchanged in accordance with the framework for exchanging terrorism-related intelligence and information established under Article 19-3(a) of this Act, if an act of terrorism occurs because important information to prevent an act of terrorism was not shared with a party required to share it under this Act or any other law, the party that failed to disclose the information is committing an offense.

(b) If a person dies as a result of the offense specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the penalty for that offense is imprisonment for a term of 5 (five) to 7 (seven) years.

(c) If a person suffers serious bodily harm as a result of the offense specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the penalty for that offense is imprisonment for a term of 3 (three) to 5 (five) years.

(d) If property is damaged as a result of the offense specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the penalty for that offense shall be determined as follows:
    1. If the value of the property is more than MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand), the penalty for a person who commits that offense is imprisonment for a term of 3 (three) to 5 (five) years.
    2. If the value of the property is between MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand), the penalty for a person who commits that offense is imprisonment for a term of 2 (two) years and 1 (one) year.
    3. If the value of the property is between MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand), the penalty for a person who commits that offense is imprisonment for a term of 1 (one) year and 6 (six) months.

(e) In other circumstances, the penalty for that offense is imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 (six) months.

**60-2. Failure to Disclose Terrorism-related Information**

(a) It is an offense for any person, after obtaining any information that an act of terrorism specified in this Act is about to be committed, to intentionally conceal that information without sharing it with the relevant government agency when there was an opportunity to do so.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 5 (five) to 7 (seven) years.

### **Chapter Eight**
#### **Special Procedures Regarding Returning Fighters**

**60-3. Application of the Principles in this Chapter to Returning Fighters**

(a) Fighters who return to the Maldives after participating in a war outside the Maldives or after going to a war zone outside the Maldives shall be dealt with in accordance with the principles specified in this chapter.

(b) In this chapter, "fighters" refers to persons who leave the Maldives for any of the following purposes:
    1. To participate in a war conducted by a terrorist organization or terrorists not affiliated with such an organization in a foreign country;
    2. To plan or prepare to commit acts of terrorism, or to participate in or aid in the commission of such acts;
    3. To provide or receive training to commit acts of terrorism, including fighting in a war.

(c) Unless proven otherwise, the following persons shall be considered fighters for the purpose of this chapter and Chapter Nine of this Act:
    1. Persons who return to the Maldives after participating in a war outside the Maldives or after going to a war zone outside the Maldives, and their family members who come with them from such a zone;
    2. Persons who have gone to a country that includes a war zone or to another country bordering a country that includes a war zone, and who cannot provide a valid reason for their stay in such a place;
    3. Persons who are believed to have gone to a place as specified in subsection (c)(2) of this Article for other reasons, and who do not have an official travel document, or whose travel document has expired and has not been renewed, or who have not reported it.

(d) For the purpose of subsection (c) of this Article, the definition of fighters does not include children under the age of 15 (fifteen) years.

**60-4. Taking Action Against Returning Fighters**

(a) If a fighter specified in Article 60-3 of this Act returns to the Maldives after participating in a war outside the Maldives or after going to a war zone outside the Maldives, one of the following measures shall be taken against such a person:
    1. Arrest under Article 22 of this Act and detention under Article 26 of this Act; or
    2. Implementing the monitoring and control measures specified in Chapter Six of this Act; or
    3. Requiring participation in a rehabilitation program under Chapter Nine of this Act; or
    4. Detention under Article 60-6 of this Act.

(b) Except in the situation specified in subsection (d) of this Article, more than one of the measures specified from subsections (a)(1) to (a)(4) may be taken against a person specified in subsection (a) of this Article.

(c) The measure specified in subsection (a)(1) of this Article shall be taken against a person specified in subsection (a) only if they are believed to be a person who committed an offense of terrorism specified in this Act or a person who participated in the commission of such an offense.

(d) The measure specified in subsection (a)(4) of this Article shall be taken against a person specified in subsection (a) in the situation specified in Article 60-6 of this Act. And in a situation where a measure is taken against such a person under subsection (a)(4), a measure specified in subsection (a)(1) shall not be taken against that person.

(e) If it is decided to arrest and detain a person specified in subsection (a) of this Article under subsection (a)(1), that person shall be detained in a custodial or remand jail designated in accordance with the Maldives Jails and Parole Act (Law No. 14/2013) for the detention of suspects.

(f) Except in a case where a person specified in subsection (a)(1) of this Article is detained under a court order, they can be detained in a place specified in subsection (e) of this Article for 48 (forty-eight) hours.

(g) To decide on the detention of a person detained under subsection (f) of this Article, they shall be brought before a judge before the expiry of the period specified in that subsection.

(h) The principles specified in Article 26 of this Act shall apply to persons brought before a judge under subsection (g) of this Article.

(i) In addition to taking one of the measures specified in subsection (a) against a person specified in that subsection, upon their arrival in the Maldives, the police must conduct an intelligence debriefing related to that person.

**60-5. Registration of Birth of Children Born in a War Zone**

(a) If the birth of children born to Maldivian citizens in a war zone has not been registered in the Maldives in accordance with the relevant law, their birth must be registered in the Maldives before they return to the Maldives.

(b) If the documents required by the relevant law for registering the birth of a child born in a war zone have not been submitted, the birth of that child can only be registered after a case has been submitted to the court in accordance with this Article to determine whether the child is the child of the Maldivian citizen who claims to be their parent or one of their parents, and after the court has made a decision on the child's birth.

(c) A case shall be submitted to the court under subsection (b) of this Article by the child's guardian, or a person designated by the guardian through a power of attorney.

(d) In a case submitted to the court under subsection (b) of this Article, the following types of evidence submitted to determine whether the child to whom the case relates is the child of the Maldivian citizen who claims to be their parent or one of their parents shall be considered admissible evidence in court:
    1. A maternity DNA analysis comparing the child's DNA profile with the DNA of the person claiming to be the child's mother; or
    2. A paternity DNA analysis comparing the child's DNA profile with the DNA of the person claiming to be the child's father; or
    3. If the person claiming to be the child's mother and father are not alive, a DNA analysis comparing the child's DNA profile with the DNA of another family member of the child; and
    4. The statement of the child's mother or, if the mother is not present, the statement of the child's father or, if neither the mother nor the father is present, the statement of the person in charge of the child's care; and
    5. The statement of any other person who can testify to the child's birth.

(e) In a case submitted to the court under subsection (b) of this Article, in addition to the evidence specified in subsection (d) of this Article, this Act does not prevent the court from accepting additional evidence that proves that the child to whom the case relates is the child of the Maldivian citizen who claims to be their parent or one of their parents.

(f) If the evidence of the type specified in subsections (d)(1) to (d)(3) submitted under subsection (d) of this Article was not prepared by a relevant government agency, the court must verify the authenticity of such evidence.

(g) A case submitted to the court under subsection (b) of this Article shall be decided and concluded within a maximum of 14 (fourteen) days from the date it is submitted to the court.

(h) If, in a situation where the court must verify the authenticity of evidence submitted under subsections (d) and/or (e) of this Article under subsection (f) of this Article, it is believed that the time taken to do so, together with the time taken to conclude the entire case, will exceed the period specified in subsection (g) of this Article, the court has the discretion to extend the period.

(i) Since the children involved in cases submitted to the court under subsection (b) of this Article are children in special exceptional circumstances, in weighing the evidence specified in subsections (d) and/or (e) of this Article and in deciding on those cases, the court shall give priority to protecting the interests of those children.

(j) If, in a case submitted to the court under subsection (b) of this Article, it is proven on a civil standard, based on the evidence specified in subsections (d) and/or (e) of this Article, that the child involved in the case is a child born to a Maldivian citizen, the court shall decide the case by determining so.

(k) Upon the court determining under subsection (j) of this Article that a child involved in a case submitted to the court under subsection (b) of this Article is a child born to a Maldivian citizen, the relevant government authorities shall arrange for the registration of the child's birth and the issuance of a birth certificate within 7 (seven) days.

(l) The procedure for arranging for the registration of birth and the issuance of a birth certificate by the relevant government authorities under subsection (k) of this Article shall be made and published in the Government Gazette within 30 (thirty) days from the date of commencement of the 3rd amendment to the Anti-Terrorism Act (Law No. 32/2015).

(m) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this Article, "relevant law" refers to the law in force in the Maldives regarding the registration of births.

(n) For the purpose of subsection (b) of this Article, "court" refers to the Family Court.

(o) For the purpose of subsection (c) of this Article, "guardian" refers to the child's parents and the person legally responsible for the child's care.

(p) For the purpose of subsection (f) of this Article, "relevant government agency" refers to the government agencies authorized to conduct DNA analysis.

**60-6. Administrative Detention**

(a) Even if a person specified in Article 60-4 of this Act is not a person suspected of committing or participating in the commission of an act of terrorism, if such a person is considered to be a person who has the opportunity to be exposed to acts of terrorism, the Minister may decide to place that person in administrative detention in accordance with this Article, in order to complete the rehabilitation and reintegration programs that must be completed before their return to society, and to take the necessary security measures before their return to society.

(b) Minor children under the age of 15 (fifteen) years who come with returning fighters from a war zone after participating in a war outside the Maldives or after going to a war zone outside the Maldives, or who come from such a zone in any other way, may also be placed in administrative detention under subsection (a) of this Article.

(c) Any person detained under subsections (a) or (b) of this Article shall be detained in a detention center as specified in Article 60-7 of this Act.

**60-7. Administrative Detention Center**

(a) For the detention of persons specified in Article 60-6 of this Act, the Minister shall establish detention centers that meet the following criteria:
    1. A special detention center for men;
    2. A special detention center for women;
    3. A special detention center for minors.

(b) The centers specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be centers designated for the detention of returning fighters, other than those suspected of a crime.

(c) Persons suspected of a crime shall not be detained in the centers specified in subsection (a) of this Article.

(d) This Act does not prevent the centers specified in subsection (a) of this Article from being in the same building. However, such centers must be located in such a way that the people in each center do not meet and interact with each other.

(e) Notwithstanding subsection (d) of this Article, having regard to the best interests of the child, a minor child under the age of 15 (fifteen) years may be decided to be kept in such a center with their guardian.

(f) The services to be provided by the centers specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

**60-8. Rights of Persons in Administrative Detention**

(a) Persons in administrative detention under Article 60-6 of this Act have the right to seek and obtain the assistance of a legal counsel and the right to meet with their family, in accordance with this chapter.

(b) Until determined otherwise after a risk assessment made under this Act, persons in administrative detention under Article 60-6 of this Act shall be given the opportunity to meet with their family and legal counsel in the presence of the center's staff.

**60-9. Special Procedure for Minors**

(a) In order to protect the interests of minor children under the age of 15 (fifteen) years among the returning fighters, the government ministry responsible for protecting the rights of children has the discretion to separate them from their parents and bring them under the care of the state.

(b) In taking a child under the care of the state under subsection (a) of this Article, the highest priority shall be given to protecting the best interests of that child. And a child shall be separated from their parents and brought under the care of the state only if it is in the best interests of the child.

(c) In a situation where separating a minor child under the age of 15 (fifteen) years from their parents is in the best interests of the child, this Article does not prevent the child from being temporarily brought under the care of the state and placed under the care of another family member or another person designated by the state.

(d) A minor child shall be handed over to a family member under subsection (c) of this Article only after a risk assessment related to that child, under a system where the child can be monitored, and with the condition that the rehabilitation or any other treatment that needs to be given to the child is continued.

(e) Before handing over a minor child to a family member under subsection (d) of this Article, an assessment of that person must have been conducted.

**60-10. Conducting a Risk Assessment**

(a) To assess the extent to which persons detained under Article 60-6 of this Act are exposed to acts of terrorism, and to identify the threat that any such person may pose to society, a risk assessment of them must be conducted in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

(b) The risk assessment under subsection (a) of this Article shall be conducted by the police.

(c) The first risk assessment of a person detained under Article 60-6 of this Act shall be conducted within 30 (thirty) days of their detention in a center specified in Article 60-7 of this Act.

(d) The stages at which a risk assessment must be conducted under this Article, and the procedures to be followed after the risk assessments conducted at different stages, shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

**60-11. Deciding on Administrative Detention**

(a) If a person detained under Article 60-6 of this Act is detained under a court order, such a detained person may be kept in custody in a center as specified in Article 60-7 of this Act for the period specified in the court order.

(b) If a person detained under Article 60-6 of this Act is not detained under a court order, in order to decide on their detention, they shall be brought before a judge within 24 (twenty-four) hours of their detention, and a decision on their detention shall be made.

(c) Since a person brought before a judge under subsection (b) of this Article is a person who has been to a war zone or has been in one and has returned to the Maldives, the judge shall order that person to be detained for a maximum period of 30 (thirty) days, considering them as a person who may pose a threat to the safety of the community if released without completing a rehabilitation program determined under this Act.

(d) If it is important to keep a person detained under subsections (a) or (c) of this Article in custody to carry out the rehabilitation program that needs to be conducted for them even after the period of their detention, a court order must be obtained to extend their detention period.

(e) A request for an extension of the period as specified in subsection (d) of this Article shall be submitted to a superior court with jurisdiction to hear criminal cases.

**60-12. Release back into the Community**

(a) None of the persons detained under Article 60-6 of this Act shall be released back into the community until after a risk assessment has been conducted to determine that they have completed the rehabilitation programs prescribed for them and are ready to be reintegrated into the community.

(b) The assessment specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be conducted by the police.

(c) The matters to be considered in conducting the assessment that must be conducted before releasing a person participating in a rehabilitation program back into the community, and the related procedures to be followed, shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

**60-13. A Person in Administrative Detention Becoming a Suspect in a Crime**

If a person in administrative detention under Article 60-6 of this Act is identified as a suspect in a crime through a risk assessment conducted under Article 60-10 of this Act or through information obtained by the police investigation in any other way, that person may be designated as a suspect in a crime and dealt with under subsections (a)(1) and (a)(2) of Article 60-4 of this Act.

**60-14. Not Proven Guilty**

(a) Even if a person suspected of committing an offense specified in Article 16 of this Act is not proven guilty of the suspected offense, since that person has come from a war zone, they shall be considered a person who has the opportunity to be exposed to acts of terrorism, and the judge shall determine that it is mandatory for that person to complete the rehabilitation program specified in this Act.

(b) Persons whom the judge determines must complete rehabilitation under subsection (a) of this Article shall be dealt with in accordance with the principles specified in Article 60-6 of this Act.

### **Chapter Nine**
#### **Rehabilitation and Reintegration**

**60-15. Rehabilitation and Reintegration Committee**

(a) To identify the rehabilitation and reintegration programs that need to be conducted in accordance with this Act for persons exposed to acts of terrorism and persons who have the opportunity to be exposed to such acts, and to identify the measures that need to be taken before the return to society of persons in detention authorized under this Act while completing such rehabilitation programs, the Minister shall establish a Rehabilitation and Reintegration Committee composed of the persons specified in subsection (b) of this Article.

(b) The committee specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be composed of the following persons:
    1. An employee of the Ministry designated by the Ministry;
    2. Two officers of the Maldives Police Service designated by the Maldives Police Service, including a person working in the division that handles cases of minors and families;
    3. A person designated by the Minister from among the employees of the Department of Juvenile Justice;
    4. A person designated by the agency designated by the President of the Republic to carry out counter-terrorism work under Article 19 of this Act;
    5. An employee of the Ministry of Gender, Family and Social Services designated by that Ministry.

(c) The committee established by the Minister under subsection (a) of this Article shall determine the following and submit it to the Minister:
    1. Determining the type and category of rehabilitation programs to be given at different stages to persons decided to be placed in administrative detention under Article 60-6 of this Act;
    2. Determining the type and category of rehabilitation programs to be given at different stages to minors decided to be placed in administrative detention under Article 60-6 of this Act;
    3. Determining the type and category of rehabilitation programs to be given at different stages to persons detained on suspicion of committing a crime specified in this Act;
    4. Determining the type and category of rehabilitation programs to be given at different stages to persons for whom a monitoring and control order has been issued under Chapter Six of this Act;
    5. Determining the type and category of rehabilitation programs to be given at different stages to persons who have been convicted of committing a crime specified in this Act and are serving their sentences.

(d) In determining the matters that need to be determined under subsection (c) of this Article, the committee specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall consider the age, gender, health, and psychological conditions of people, and other vulnerable situations of different people, and international laws and standards for the protection of human rights, and shall determine the types and categories of rehabilitation treatment that can be given to people in different situations at different stages, and the treatment programs that can be given under each of those categories.

(e) The rehabilitation and reintegration programs determined by the committee specified in subsection (a) of this Article under subsection (c) of this Article shall be rehabilitation programs that are given continuously from the time the persons specified in that subsection are detained and/or until they have served their sentence and returned to society, or from the time a monitoring and control order is issued against them until the order is enforced and they have returned to society.

**60-16. Conducting Rehabilitation and Reintegration Programs**

When the committee specified in Article 60-15(a) of this Act determines the rehabilitation and reintegration programs under subsection (c) of that Article, those programs shall be conducted for individuals by the Ministry, in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

**60-17. Regulations Regarding Rehabilitation and Reintegration Programs**

The procedures for conducting the rehabilitation and reintegration programs specified in this chapter shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

### **Chapter Ten**
#### **Miscellaneous**

**61. Repealed Law**

Upon the commencement of this Act, Law No. 10/90 (Anti-Terrorism Act of the Maldives) is repealed.

**62. Commencement of the Act**

This Act shall commence on the date of its passing, ratification, and publication in the Government Gazette.

**63. Making Regulations**

(a) The regulations that need to be made and implemented to give effect to the principles stated in this Act regarding the prohibition and prevention of terrorism shall be made and announced within 6 (six) months from the date of commencement of this Act.

(b) No regulation made under subsection (a) of this Article shall be a regulation that contradicts the purposes of this Act, or that negates the special procedures required to be followed by this Act, or that hinders the implementation of those procedures.

(c) Regulations under subsection (a) of this Article shall be made by the Minister.

**63-1. Confidential Report on Measures Taken by Enforcement Agencies**

(a) The Minister shall submit a confidential report on the measures taken by enforcement agencies under this Act to the President's Office and the Parliamentary Committee on National Security and Foreign Relations every 6 (six) months. The report submitted in this manner shall include the following information:
    1. The number of persons arrested on suspicion under this Act.
    2. A summary of the crimes of which the suspected persons were suspected.
    3. Information on the persons whose right to meet privately with a legal counsel was withheld under Article 24 of this Act, the reason for that decision, and information on the person who authorized it.
    4. The number of persons arrested without a court order, the places searched, and information on the persons who authorized it.
    5. The number of persons searched in a manner that exposes their sexual organs, and information on the person who authorized it.
    6. The number of persons for whom detention was requested from the court, and the details of the court's decision on the matter.
    7. The persons for whom a risk assessment was conducted under this Act, and the decision made about them.
    8. Details of the persons for whom a rehabilitation program was conducted under this Act.
    9. The perceived level of the threat of terrorism.

(b) The Minister shall submit a report to the President, the People's Majlis, and the Human Rights Commission every 6 (six) months, stating his views on the manner in which an enforcement agency has acted in a situation where any fundamental right guaranteed by Chapter Two of the Constitution is withheld or restricted due to the measures taken by an enforcement agency under this Act against persons prosecuted under this Act and the charges brought against them.

(c) This Article does not prevent the exclusion of information that could hinder an investigation from a report specified in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article.

**64. Definitions**

Unless otherwise stated in this Act, the following terms and phrases shall have the meanings given below in relation to those terms and phrases:

(a) "Military weapon" means any weapon designed in such a way that it can kill a person, or that has the capability to kill a person, from among items for which there is no ordinary common permissible use, including automatic and other firearms and explosives.

(b) "Control" means to set certain limits and measures on a person's freedom, and to hold that person's freedom within those limits and measures.

(c) "Minister" means the Minister of Home Affairs.

(d) "Monitor" means to observe how a person is living.

(e) "MONICON" means monitoring and controlling.

(f) "Destructive material" means explosives and flammable materials. This includes items made to explode at a certain time, items with a planned way of exploding, poisons, poison gases, biological or chemical substances that can cause death, and radioactive materials.

(g) "National Security Council" means the National Security Council specified in Article 13(a) of the Armed Forces Act (Law No. 1/2008).

(h) "Law enforcement agency" means, in relation to the acts of terrorism specified in Chapter Two of this Act, the agency designated by the President of the Republic to carry out counter-terrorism work to stop those acts, and for the purpose of investigating persons suspected of committing a crime under this Act and carrying out the matters specified in Chapters Three and Four of this Act, the Minister, the Maldives Police Service, and any other government institution with the legal power of law enforcement.

(i) "Explosives" means any means that explodes in its nature, including items that are prohibited for general use or for which government permission is required for use, or items produced by combining items used for general purposes with any chemical, mineral, or gas, including items made to explode at a certain time, items with a planned way of exploding, poisons, poison gases, biological or chemical substances that can cause death, and radioactive materials.
