Armed Forces Act
Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This is the law that sets forth the responsibilities, duties, standards, and principles to be followed by the armed forces of the Maldives, as well as their powers, protections, benefits, the administration of armed forces powers, the division of those powers, and all other principles concerning the armed forces of the Maldives.[1]
(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Armed Forces Act".[1]
Objective of the Armed Forces

2.
The main objectives of the Armed Forces are as follows:

(a) To protect and safeguard the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives and the Maldivian state.[1]
(b) To protect and defend the independence, sovereignty, and integrity of the Republic of Maldives in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives.[1]
(c) To protect the lawful government of the Maldives from any unlawful act that may undermine it.[1]
(d) To undertake all necessary actions to provide swift and emergency services during national emergencies.[1]
Oath of the Armed Forces

3.
(a) To responsibly fulfill all duties and obligations required of the armed forces under this Act, every member of the armed forces shall take the oath in Schedule 1 of this Act.
(b) It is the duty of every member of the armed forces to uphold the oath of the armed forces mentioned in subsection (a) of this section.
Armed Forces of the Nation

4.
In accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder, there shall be an armed force in the Maldives.
Role of the Armed Forces

5.
(a) The armed forces are the unified military forces established by the Maldivian state to carry out all the responsibilities, duties, and obligations assigned to them in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.[1]
(b) The armed forces are a military body.[1]
Main Divisions of the Armed Forces

6.
(a) The military forces mentioned in Section 5 of this Act include the land, sea, and air forces that maintain security.[1]
(b) The Minister has the authority to divide, organize, and make changes to the military forces mentioned in subsection (a) of this section.
(c) The Minister has the authority to make additions or reductions to the military forces mentioned in subsection (a) of this section.[1]
Responsibilities of the Armed Forces

7.
The responsibilities of the Armed Forces are as follows:

(a) To defend and protect the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives and the Maldivian state.[1]
(b) To defend and protect the independence and sovereignty of the Maldives, and to protect and maintain the national interest with security.[1]
(c) To defend and securely maintain the territory and the Exclusive Economic Zone of the Maldives.[1]
(d) To take the lead in cooperation with relevant government authorities in saving the lives and property of the people during natural disasters and other major dangerous incidents in the Maldives.
(e) To provide firefighting services and to save the lives and property of the people in fire incidents.
(f) To search for and rescue persons in distress at sea, and to save the lives and property of the people in dangerous incidents at sea and on land.
(g) To maintain the safety and security of the sea and air ports of the Maldives.
(h) To advise and assist the government in formulating policies related to the defense and protection of the independence and sovereignty of the Maldives.
(i) To seek, collect, and analyze information regarding matters that may pose a threat or risk to the independence and sovereignty of the Maldives and to national security, and to take necessary measures in accordance with the law.[1]
(j) To work towards demonstrating the honor, dignity, and prestige of the Maldivian state, and to represent distinguished ceremonial activities and military exercises in international, national, or official ceremonies.[1]
(k) To acquire the necessary tools and resources to perform the duties and responsibilities of the armed forces, and to maintain them securely for their most effective use.[1]
(l) To conduct the necessary research to maintain the services of the armed forces at their most appropriate level, and to plan and design future services in light of that research, in consultation with the People's Majlis.
(m) To educate and train the armed forces to be a knowledgeable, skilled, brave, intelligent, and capable force, and to be a loyal and faithful force that is always ready to sacrifice for the nation without hesitation in fulfilling their responsibilities.[1]
(l) To carry out all tasks assigned to the armed forces by the ministry responsible for the defense and security of the Maldives as stipulated in the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives and the laws of the Maldives.[1]
Duties of the Armed Forces

8.
The main duties of the Armed Forces are as follows:

(a) To remain loyal and trustworthy in defending the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives, the Maldivian state, and the religion of Islam, and to be prepared to sacrifice body and soul to save the Maldives from enemies and insurgents.[1]
(b) To be a force that fully submits to and obeys the laws and regulations of the Maldives.[1]
(c) To be a force that unhesitatingly obeys the Constitution and laws of the Maldives, the regulations and principles of the armed forces, and the orders and commands given by superiors in accordance therewith.[1]
(d) To conduct themselves in accordance with all the fine customs and principles maintained to uphold the honor and dignity of the armed forces.
(e) To perform every official task assigned with diligence, care, and sincerity.
(f) To perform every duty required of a member of the armed forces to the best of one's ability, even without a specific order.
Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces

9.
(a) The supreme commander of the armed forces is the President of the Republic.
(b) The supreme commander of the armed forces has the authority to give direct orders to individual soldiers, a part of the armed forces, or the entire armed forces at any time.
(c) The name of the defense forces of the Maldives shall be determined by the supreme commander of the armed forces upon the advice of the Minister.
(d) The supreme commander of the armed forces has the authority at any time to exercise the legal power and authority vested in the Minister, the Chief of Defence Force, and any other commander of the armed forces.
The Minister

10.
(a) Unless otherwise specified and announced by the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, the Minister shall be the most senior official responsible for organizing and administering all matters pertaining to the Armed Forces.
(b) The Minister shall determine the necessary components for the implementation of the responsibilities of the Armed Forces and all tasks to be performed by those components.
(c) The Minister has the authority to issue direct orders to individual members of the armed forces, a unit of the armed forces, or the entire armed forces at any time, in a manner that does not contradict the orders of the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces.
(d) The Minister has the authority to exercise, at any time, the legal power and discretion vested in any other officer of the armed forces, except for the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, in a manner that does not contradict the orders of the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces.
(e) The Minister shall be answerable to the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces and the People's Majlis regarding the exercise of all legal power and discretion vested in the Minister over the Armed Forces and the manner in which the Minister's responsibilities are discharged.
Chief of Defence Force

11.
(a) The Chief of Defence Force is the most senior officer in charge of administering the defense affairs of the Maldives and the day-to-day operations of the armed forces, and the commander of the military forces.
(b) It is the responsibility of the Chief of Defence Force to establish the necessary procedures and systems to oversee and be accountable for the performance of the duties and responsibilities of the armed forces, to enhance and maintain their competence and capability, and to issue necessary orders and take all necessary steps in relation to these matters.
(c) The Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces shall appoint and dismiss the Chief of Defence Force.
(d) A person appointed to the post of Chief of Defence Force shall be a person appointed from among the general officers of the armed forces, giving priority to seniority and the ability to perform the duties of the post.
(e) The Chief of Defence Force shall be answerable to the Minister for the exercise of all legal powers and authority vested in him over the Armed Forces and for the discharge of his responsibilities.
Vice Chief of Defence Force

12.
(a) The Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces has the discretion to appoint a Vice Chief of Defence Force from among the general officers of the armed forces to assist the Chief of Defence Force in administering the defense affairs of the Maldives and in the day-to-day management of the armed forces.
(b) The primary responsibility of the Vice Chief of Defence Force shall be matters assigned to him in writing by the Minister in consultation with the Chief of Defence Force, from within the responsibilities of the Chief of Defence Force.
(c) In the absence, suspension, or inability of the Chief of Defence Force to perform his duties, or if his post becomes vacant for any other reason, the Vice Chief of Defence Force shall assume all the responsibilities and powers of the Chief of Defence Force under this Act and the regulations made hereunder.
National Security Council

13.
(a) There shall be a National Security Council to advise the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces on all matters relating to national security. The Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces shall preside over this council. In the event that the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces is unable to attend a meeting of the council, he has the discretion to delegate the presidency to the Vice President of the Republic or the Minister.
(b) The National Security Council shall be composed of the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, the Vice President of the Republic if one exists, the Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Home Affairs, the Minister of Atolls Development, the Attorney General, and the Chief of Defence Force.
(c) In addition to the persons mentioned in subsection (b) of this section, the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces has the discretion to include other persons whom he deems necessary to provide advice only at a meeting of the National Security Council concerning a matter being held.
Armed Forces Advisory Council

14.
(a) The Minister shall appoint an Armed Forces Advisory Council from among the senior officers of the armed forces to provide advice and consultation to the Minister and the Chief of Defence Force in determining the administrative and operational policies of the armed forces. The Chief of Defence Force shall preside over this council.
(b) The Minister has the discretion to include persons deemed appropriate by the Minister from among the most senior officials of the ministry responsible for the defense and security of the Maldives to participate in the council mentioned in subsection (a) of this section for the sole purpose of providing advice to the Minister and the Chief of Defence Force in determining the administrative policies of the armed forces.
Armed Forces Reserve Force

15.
(a) In addition to the armed forces mentioned in Section 4 of this Act, the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces has the discretion to order the formation and operation of an armed forces reserve force, as determined by the Supreme Commander and in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.
(b) All sections of this Act applicable to members of the armed forces shall apply to a person or group of persons in the armed forces reserve force mentioned in subsection (a) of this section, upon the order of the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces for such reserve force member or group to report for active duty.
(c) A person or a group of persons in the armed forces reserve force may be ordered to active duty by a special order issued by the supreme commander of the armed forces in one of the following situations:
(1) To defend the Maldives in a state of war; or
(2) To defend the Maldivian state in the event of a rebellion, insurrection, or other internal unrest against the state using military weapons; or
(3) In a situation where the National Security Council advises the supreme commander of the armed forces that a situation mentioned in (1) and (2) may arise; or
(4) Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the President of the Republic under the powers vested in him by the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives; or
(5) In a natural disaster affecting the Maldives.
(d) A person or persons in the armed forces reserve force may be ordered to active duty by the supreme commander of the armed forces in a situation mentioned in subsection (c) of this section if the supreme commander deems that the regular armed forces are insufficient for that situation.
(e) As provided in subsections (c) and (d) of this section, the supreme commander of the armed forces shall, by a written communication, inform the People's Majlis of the reason for ordering a person or a group of persons in the armed forces reserve force to active duty within the period prescribed by the Constitution or, if no such period is prescribed by the Constitution, within a maximum of 30 days from the date of such order.
(f) The active duty of a person or persons ordered to active duty by the supreme commander of the armed forces from the armed forces reserve force, as provided in subsection (c), shall end by a special order issued by the supreme commander of the armed forces to that effect.
(g) In addition to the basic training given to the members of the reserve force, a minimum of two weeks of training shall be given annually to refresh the training provided. And for this training, the members of the reserve force must be released from their employment in their respective fields without dismissal and with full pay.
Privilege of the Armed Forces

16.
(a) No action shall be brought against a member of the armed forces for any act done or omitted to be done by him in his official capacity without any ill-intent, in compliance with a lawful order of his superior, or in the performance of his duty as a member of the armed forces in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.
(b) If a member of the armed forces is dismissed from service in a circumstance other than those mentioned in Section 31 of this Act, he shall be entitled to the protection of the privilege conferred upon him under subsection (a) of this section even after his dismissal from service.
(c) The member of the armed forces who disobeyed or violated the regulations shall be fully responsible for any injury, harm, or damage caused to the body, property, or belongings of that member of the armed forces as a result of an act committed in disobedience to a lawful order of a superior officer or in violation of the law and regulations in the performance of the duties of the armed forces.
Powers of the Armed Forces

17.
(a) Every member of the armed forces shall have the power and authority to exercise, to the extent prescribed in this Act and the regulations made hereunder, the powers and discretions specified in this Act and in other laws and regulations relating to the role and power of the armed forces, in a manner that does not conflict with the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives, the laws of the Maldives, or a regulation made under this Act.
(b) Every member of the armed forces shall be answerable to the Chief of Defence Force with honesty and sincerity for the manner in which he exercises all the legal powers and authority vested in him and for the manner in which he discharges his responsibilities.
Void Order

18.
If any order is given in a manner that contravenes the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives or this Act and the regulations made hereunder, the part of that order that contravenes the law or regulation shall be a void order.
Non-participation in Political Activities

19.
No member of the armed forces shall participate in, be active in, or act in a manner that affiliates with any political party.
Right to Vote

20.
Every member of the armed forces has the right to vote granted to Maldivian citizens by the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives.
Carrying and Use of Weapons

21.
In carrying out the responsibilities and duties of the armed forces as provided for in this Act, the armed forces are authorized to carry and use weapons in accordance with the regulations on the carrying of weapons and the rules of engagement regulations made under this Act.
Assisting the Police and Other Law Enforcement Agencies

22.
(a) The armed forces shall provide assistance to the police and other law enforcement agencies when they request such assistance in maintaining peace and order in the country, in accordance with established procedures.
(b) In the circumstances mentioned in subsection (a) of this section, the armed forces shall also have all the legal powers vested in the police and other law enforcement agencies.
(c) In exercising the power mentioned in subsection (b) of this section, it shall be done in accordance with the laws and regulations made for that purpose.
The right to request the assistance of the public and the use of public property and belongings

23.
(a) In situations where there is a great danger to the national security of the Maldives or to the lives and property of the people, the armed forces have the right to request the assistance of a citizen, a legal person, or an association, and also in such situations, the right to use the property, vehicle, or any other thing of a citizen, a legal person, or an association.
(b) If any damage is caused to an item used in accordance with subsection (a) of this section, compensation for that damage shall be paid to that person.
(c) Any person who refuses to provide assistance to the armed forces in the situations mentioned in subsection (a) of this section shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
Collection and Retention of National Security Information

24.
(a) A special unit within the armed forces has the power and authority to collect information for the purpose of safeguarding the national security and public order of the Maldives.
(b) Any person who gives any information that may undermine the national security and public order of the Maldives to an unauthorized person shall be guilty of an offense under this Act.
(c) No information obtained in the course of carrying out the responsibilities and duties of the armed forces shall be disclosed except to the following persons or in the following circumstances:
(1) To the supreme commander of the armed forces, the minister, the national security council, and the chief of defence force in the course of carrying out the responsibilities and duties of the armed forces;
(2) To the heads of law enforcement agencies;
(3) To a court of law conducting a case in connection with a decision of the armed forces or the ministry;
(4) If the information is information that has been made public by an official body.
Providing Employment and Training

25.
(a) The Minister shall administer and oversee the recruitment of employees to the armed forces, the assignment of posts to those employees, the granting of promotions, demotions, and the determination and transfer of posts or places of employment, in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
(b) The Minister shall administer and oversee the provision of training to the armed forces in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
(c) The Minister may, if he deems it appropriate, delegate the administration and oversight of matters relating to the employment and training of the armed forces under subsections (a) and (b) of this section to the Chief of Defence Force.
Establishment of Ranks and Posts in the Armed Forces

26.
The Minister shall determine and establish the ranks and posts of the armed forces in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
Granting Promotions and Medals of Honor to Soldiers

27.
(a) The Minister shall decide on granting promotions and medals of honor to soldiers in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
(b) The Minister shall form a board from among the officers of the armed forces to administer and oversee all matters related to granting promotions and medals of honor to soldiers as mentioned in subsection (a) of this section, and to advise the Minister on such matters.
Unauthorized Use of Military Uniform and Medal of Honor

28.
Any person who commits any of the acts described in subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this section without obtaining permission from the party required to grant permission under this Act and the regulations made hereunder shall be guilty of an offense under this Act.
code Code
IGNORE_WHEN_COPYING_START
IGNORE_WHEN_COPYING_END

      
(a) The production, sale, or use of an official uniform or medal of honor authorized for use by the armed forces by regulation.
(b) The production or use of an official uniform or medal of honor authorized for use by the armed forces by regulation, or a copy of such an item, with the intent to deceive a person or persons.
(c) Giving an official uniform or medal of honor authorized for use by the armed forces by regulation to a person who is not authorized to use it.

    

Resignation from the Armed Forces

29.
(a) If a member of the armed forces, other than the Chief of Defence Force and the Vice Chief of Defence Force, wishes to resign from his post, he may do so by a written communication addressed to the Minister stating the reason. And until the Minister accepts the resignation, that person shall continue to perform his duties.
(b) If the Chief of Defence Force or the Vice Chief of Defence Force wishes to resign, he may do so by a written communication addressed to the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces stating the reason. And until the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces accepts the resignation, that person shall continue to perform his duties.
Honorable Discharge from Service

30.
(a) If a member of the armed forces is dismissed from service in a circumstance other than those mentioned in Section 31 of this Act, the Minister may determine that any person who leaves the service of the armed forces is a person who has left the service of the armed forces with honor in accordance with the retirement regulations made under this Act.
(b) The retirement regulations for armed forces personnel shall include the following ways in which a member of the armed forces may be retired:
(1) Reaching the age specified for the rank.
(2) Serving in the same post for a specified period of time.
(3) Unfavorable health condition.
(4) Upon own request.
(5) To maintain the force structure of the armed forces.
(6) To give priority to retaining the most capable personnel in the armed forces.
(c) The Minister has the discretion to grant special benefits and privileges to persons who leave the service of the armed forces with honor in accordance with subsection (a) of this section, in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
(d) The maximum age for serving in the armed forces is 60 years. This section shall come into force 1 (one) year after this Act comes into force.
(e) If a member of the armed forces is dismissed from his service in a circumstance mentioned in Section 31 of this Act, he shall not receive any benefit or privilege granted under subsection (b) of this section.
Dismissal from Employment

31.
The Minister has the discretion and power to dismiss a person from the service of the armed forces for desertion, a disciplinary issue, committing a crime, or for violating this Act and any regulation made hereunder.
Absconding from Duty

32.
(a) If a member of the armed forces deserts his post or attempts to desert, he shall be punished as prescribed in this Act or in the regulations made under this Act.
(b) A member of the armed forces shall be deemed to have deserted under subsection (a) of this section if he absconds from a duty assigned by the armed forces, leaves a duty assigned by the armed forces without permission, fails to report for duty for 14 (fourteen) days without obtaining permission, fails to report for duty in an emergency in contravention of an order from his superior, refuses to report for duty, or flees or neglects his duty in an operational situation requiring confrontation with the enemy and rebels, knowing the situation.
(c) Any person who encourages, incites, or assists a member of the armed forces to desert his post as mentioned in subsection (a) of this section shall be guilty of an offense under this Act.
Mutiny within the Armed Forces

33.
Any member of the armed forces who commits mutiny or incites sedition within the armed forces, or conspires to do so, or encourages such an act, or knowing that others are committing or conspiring to commit such an act, fails to report it to a senior officer of the armed forces or delays in reporting it, shall be guilty of an offense under this Act.
Benefits for Armed Forces Personnel

34.
All benefits for armed forces personnel shall be arranged by the Minister in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
Compensation for Serious Injury or Disability in the Line of Duty

35.
If a member of the armed forces suffers a serious injury or becomes disabled while on duty, he shall be entitled to just compensation in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
Welfare Fund

36.
(a) The Minister has the discretion to establish a welfare fund to improve the welfare of the armed forces and to authorize expenditure from that fund for the welfare of the armed forces.
(b) The Minister has the discretion, if he deems fit, to delegate the establishment and administration of the welfare fund under subsection (a) of this section to the Chief of Defence Force.
(c) In order to promote and further develop the welfare fund mentioned in subsection (a) of this section, business may be conducted on a cooperative basis for the benefit of the armed forces, their families, and those who have honorably retired from the armed forces, in accordance with the law and regulations.
(d) The Minister has the discretion to authorize, in accordance with the relevant laws, the formation of legal entities, associations, or societies from within the armed forces for the purpose of conducting business as mentioned in subsection (c) of this section.
Armed Forces Medical Clinic

37.
A medical clinic may be established and operated to provide medical services to members of the armed forces, their families, and those who have honorably retired from the armed forces.
Acquisition and Purchase of Equipment, Resources, and Weapons for the Performance of the Duties of the Armed Forces

38.
The armed forces have the power to acquire and purchase all necessary equipment, resources, and weapons to perform their duties, in a manner that does not conflict with the laws, regulations, and principles concerning government property and finance, and with the international treaties to which the Maldives is a party.
Registration of Military Vehicles

39.
(a) Land, sea, and air vehicles used for the military purposes of the armed forces are exempt from the registration required under the general transport laws of the Maldives.
(b) The vehicles mentioned in subsection (a) of this section shall be registered with the ministry responsible for the defense and security of the Maldives in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
Registration of Communication Equipment and Allocation of Frequency Bands

40.
(a) Communication equipment acquired for military purposes under this Act is exempt from the registration required under the communication laws of the Maldives.
(b) The communication equipment mentioned in subsection (a) of this section shall be registered and maintained at the ministry responsible for the defense and security of the Maldives in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
(c) Special frequency bands and frequencies shall be allocated to the armed forces for use in military purposes.
Authority Granted to Captains of Military Vessels

41.
(a) If a captain of a Coast Guard vessel of the armed forces, while on duty, observes any of the following acts being committed or about to be committed by another vessel at sea, that captain has the authority to seize and detain such vessels and the persons on board.
(1) Committing an act at sea that could endanger or undermine the independence and sovereignty or national security of the Maldives; or
(2) Illegally entering the political or economic territory of the Maldives or fishing in that territory in contravention of the laws of the Maldives; or
(3) Violating the laws and regulations concerning the maritime zones of the Maldives or the fisheries laws and regulations of the Maldives; or
(4) Attempting to import into or export from the Maldives any item the import into or export from the Maldives of which is prohibited; or
(5) Attempting to import into or export from the Maldives goods that are permitted to be imported into and exported from the Maldives in accordance with the law and regulations, in contravention of the law and regulations; or
(6) Violating the laws and regulations made in connection with customs, finance, immigration, and health purposes in the contiguous zone of the Maldives; or
(7) Polluting, damaging, or destroying the coasts of the Maldives and the sea areas connected to those coasts, or destroying any thing of economic and social benefit, or attempting to reduce the profit and benefit derived from it; or
(8) Obstructing and stopping the freedom of navigation in the maritime zones of the Maldives.
(b) In order to carry out the responsibilities stated in subsection (a) of this section, the captains of the armed forces coast guard vessels have the power to stop, inspect, and search vessels in accordance with the law and regulations, and to seize from such vessels and the persons on board, any goods, articles, documents, weapons, and other such items that are in violation of the law and regulations, and to detain such persons and articles until they are handed over to the police for the investigation of the cases related to such persons and articles.
(c) Persons arrested and articles seized by the armed forces in accordance with subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall be handed over to the police at the earliest possible opportunity for the investigation of the cases related to such persons and articles.
Harm, Inconvenience, or Injury to a Member of the Armed Forces by Another Member of the Armed Forces

42.
(a) If any member of the armed forces suffers harm, inconvenience, or injury from another member of the armed forces, every member of the armed forces has the discretion to submit the matter to the Minister to find a solution.
(b) If a matter such as that mentioned in subsection (a) of this section is submitted to the Minister, the matter shall be submitted to a committee specially designated for that purpose, and the matter shall be investigated and the necessary measures taken in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
Military Police

43.
The Minister shall establish a military police within the armed forces to investigate crimes committed by soldiers, to look into various issues that arise within the armed forces and take necessary action, to maintain the security of military centers and military operations, to find deserters, and to handle all matters related to prisoners of war in a state of war.
Standard of Administrative Punishment for Offenses Committed by Soldiers

44.
(a) If a soldier violates the provisions of this Act and the regulations made hereunder, an administrative punishment prescribed for that act shall be imposed under the "Regulations on Administrative Punishment for Offenses Committed by Soldiers" made under this Act, taking into account the seriousness of the act committed.
(b) This Act does not preclude the prosecution of a member of the armed forces for a criminal offense committed by him, to whom an administrative penalty is to be imposed in accordance with subsection (a) of this section.
(c) The punishments in the regulation mentioned in subsection (a) of this section shall be prescribed within the following standards.
(1) A fine of not less than 10 (ten) Rufiyaa and not more than 25,000 (twenty-five thousand) Rufiyaa;
(2) Confinement in a military facility for a period between 01 (one) day and 220 (two hundred and twenty) days;
(3) Confinement in a military facility for a period between 01 (one) day and 120 (one hundred and twenty) days in a manner that generally prevents contact with other persons;
(4) Confinement with hard labor for a period between 05 (five) days and 90 (ninety) days in a military facility or building on an island other than the one where he normally resides;
(5) Demotion in rank;
(6) Dismissal from service;
(7) Dismissal from service and submission of the case to trial.
Punishment

45.
The punishment for an offense for which no specific punishment is prescribed in this Act and the regulations made hereunder shall be a fine not exceeding 25,000 (twenty-five thousand) Rufiyaa or imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year, or a fine not exceeding 25,000 (twenty-five thousand) Rufiyaa and imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year.
Making Regulations

46.
(a) All regulations required to be made under this Act shall be made and implemented by the Minister. The Minister has the discretion to grant the Chief of Defence Force the power to make and implement such regulations as the Minister may direct, from among the regulations required to be made under this Act, if the Minister deems it appropriate.
(b) Within 6 (six) months of the passage, ratification, and publication of this Act in the Government Gazette, regulations concerning the following matters shall be made and brought into force.
(1) General Regulations of the Armed Forces.
(2) Code of Conduct and Code of Ethics.
(3) Regulations on the Carrying of Weapons.
(4) Rules of Engagement Regulations.
(5) Regulations on Employment in the Armed Forces.
(6) Regulations on the Uniform of the Armed Forces.
(7) Regulations on the Training of the Armed Forces.
(8) Regulations on the establishment, maintenance, and administration of the Armed Forces Reserve.
(9) Regulations on the Registration of Military Vehicles.
(10) Regulations on Administrative Punishment for Offenses Committed by Soldiers.
(11) Retirement Regulations.
(12) Regulations on Dismissal from Employment.
(13) Regulations on Granting Promotions and Medals of Honor to Soldiers.
(14) Regulations on Taking Leave and Sick Leave.
(15) Regulations on the Carrying and Use of the Armed Forces Identity Card.
(16) Regulations on investigating complaints made against members of the armed forces and taking action on them.
(17) Regulations on the auditing of the armed forces departments.
Commencement of this Act

47.
This Act shall come into force on the day on which 3 (three) months have passed since the passage, ratification, and publication of this Act in the Government Gazette.
Definitions

48.
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:
code Code
IGNORE_WHEN_COPYING_START
IGNORE_WHEN_COPYING_END

      
(a) "Minister" means the Minister of the Ministry responsible for the defense and security of the Maldives, or the most senior person in charge of that Ministry.
(b) "Active duty" means to perform only the duties of the armed forces in order to carry out all the responsibilities and duties of the armed forces as provided for in this Act.
(c) "Military weapon" means a weapon containing gunpowder or a similar dangerous chemical, and a weapon capable of causing great harm to a person's body or property.
(d) "Commander" means the most senior person among the officers of the armed forces in charge of the military forces.
(e) "Port" means the ports designated by the government as international and regional ports.
(f) "Mutiny within the armed forces" means, for a member of the armed forces, to participate with another member or a group of members of the armed forces in the use of force or the threat of force, or for that purpose to disobey duties and tasks assigned and orders given in a war situation requiring confrontation with the enemy and insurgents, and to encourage others to do so. And for a member of the armed forces or a large group of members of the armed forces to attempt to commit an act such as the following shall also be considered "mutiny within the armed forces" in this Act.
    (1) To usurp a power vested by the armed forces in one's superior or commander.
    (2) In a state of war requiring confrontation with the enemy, to disobey the orders of one's superiors and not to go to the assigned tasks and duties.
    (3) To obstruct the work to be done in the armed forces and the duties to be performed.
    (4) To show disobedience and use force against a member of the armed forces on duty.
    (5) To attempt to enter by force a place where a member of the armed forces is on duty, or to enter oneself or another person into that place by using force and intimidation.
(g) "Sedition" means to create or attempt to create sedition or unrest among the members of the armed forces by words spoken, writings written, acts done, or even gestures.
(h) "Protecting the national interest" means to work to protect the Maldivian state from matters that may cause great harm to the entire nation or to a large part of society due to matters arising from outside and inside the Maldives, and from various disasters facing the nation.
(i) "General officers" means officers of the rank of Brigadier and above.
(j) "Rules of Engagement Regulations" means the regulations that set out the principles, standards, the extent of force that can be used, the ways in which attacks can be carried out, and the circumstances in which armed attacks can be carried out, to be followed by the military forces when they have to confront a group that is committing illegal acts or an enemy force.
(k) "Enemy" means foreigners who commit an act that harms the independence and sovereignty of the Maldives, and Maldivians who participate with them in this act.
(l) "Insurgents" means Maldivians who commit an act that harms the independence and sovereignty of the Maldives.

    

Schedule 1

Oath of the Armed Forces

"I swear by Almighty Allah to remain steadfast in loyalty and trustworthiness in defending the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives, the religion of Islam, and the Maldives, and to be brave enough to sacrifice my body and soul in the event that I have to do so to save the Maldivian state from enemies and insurgents."
Sources help 
