Audit Act

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This is the law for auditing all state institutions and accounts, and state-owned enterprises, and to determine the duties and responsibilities of the Auditor General.
(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Audit Act".

Appointment of the Auditor General

2.
(a) There shall be an independent and impartial Auditor General in the Maldives.
(b) The Auditor General shall be appointed by the President in accordance with this Article.
(c) Whenever it is necessary to appoint a person to the post of Auditor General, the President shall submit one or more names to the People's Majlis.
(d) The name or names submitted by the President to the People's Majlis under subsection (c) of this Article shall be a name or names selected from among those who respond to a public announcement.
(e) Within 30 (thirty) days of this Act coming into force, the President shall send a name or names for the post of Auditor General to the People's Majlis for its approval.
(f) The President shall appoint as Auditor General the person approved by a majority of the total membership of the People's Majlis from among the names submitted by the President to the People's Majlis in accordance with subsection (c) of this Article.

Establishment of the Auditor General's Office

3.
(a) An office by the name of the "Auditor General's Office" was established upon the commencement of the 1st Amendment to Law No. 4/2007 (Audit Act), in order to carry out the responsibilities and duties entrusted to the Auditor General under this Act.
(b) All property and resources used in the Auditor General's Office that was in operation prior to the commencement of the 1st Amendment to Law No. 4/2007 (Audit Act), the funds allocated to that office from the state budget and approved by the People's Majlis, its employees and all their rights and duties, and all obligations and responsibilities to be borne by that office under law and agreements, and the rights and benefits conferred upon that office under law and agreements, were transferred to the Auditor General's Office established in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article, upon the establishment of that office.
(c) The Auditor General's Office is an independent legal personality with a separate seal, having the capacity to sue and be sued in its own name, to enter into transactions in its own name, and having the right to own property and to make full use of such property.

Term of Office of the Auditor General

4.
(a) The term of office of an Auditor General appointed under this Act shall be one (1) term of 7 (seven) years from the date of his appointment.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, the term of office of a person appointed as Auditor General, other than a person removed under Article 18 of this Act, may be extended for a period not exceeding 5 (five) years by a resolution passed by a majority of the total membership of the People's Majlis.

Qualifications required for the Auditor General

    The person appointed to the post of Auditor General must fulfill the following criteria:
    (a) Be a Muslim;
    (b) Be a Maldivian citizen;
    (c) Not be a citizen of a foreign country;
    (d) Be between the age of 35 (thirty-five) years and 65 (sixty-five) years;
    (e) Be of sound mind;
    (f) Not have been convicted of an offense for which a hadd is prescribed in Islam, an offense of criminal breach of trust, or an offense of bribery;
    (g) Not be holding any other post or employed in any other job in addition to the post of Auditor General;
    (h) Not be a member of a political party or be active in a political party;
    (i) Possess the education and capability to perform the responsibilities of the post of Auditor General. In that regard, be a member of an accounting body recognized by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) and have at least 7 (seven) years of experience working in the accounting field in the Maldives;
    (j) Not have a share in a state-owned or state-partnered company or a private company.

Auditor General to Perform Responsibilities Independently

5-1.
(a) The Auditor General shall perform the responsibilities vested in him by the Constitution and the law, free from bias and with independence.
(b) The Auditor General shall not be a person under the influence of any party in the performance of his official duties and the exercise of his powers.
(c) The Auditor General shall perform the responsibilities required of him in his capacity as Auditor General with independence, fairness, without partiality, and without yielding to any influence.

Code of Conduct of the Auditor General

    The Auditor General shall, in his personal capacity and in his official capacity, adhere to the following code of conduct in all circumstances:
    (a) Not to do any act which may prejudice the duty to be performed as Auditor General or which may cause a conflict of interest;
    (b) Not to do any act at any time which may bring the dignity of the office of Auditor General into disrepute;
    (c) Not to use the power and authority conferred upon the Auditor General by law with malicious intent to cause harm to any particular party or to commit an illegal act, either directly or indirectly, by using the position;
    (d) Not to do any act, directly or indirectly, using the position with the intention of causing specific harm to a particular person or with the intention of defaming him;
    (e) Not to solicit any gift, aid, benefit or hospitality from any party, except for a gift, aid, benefit or hospitality that is generally available to any person on a common basis.

Principles to be Upheld in Fulfilling Responsibilities

6-1.
(a) In performing their official responsibilities and duties, the Auditor General and the employees of his office shall, in addition to upholding the following principles and the code of conduct specified in Article 6 of this Act, formulate and act in accordance with a code of conduct that is consistent with the laws and regulations of the Maldives and international standards. Accordingly, the Auditor General's Office shall formulate the code of conduct for the Auditor General's Office within 2 (two) months from the date of commencement of this Act and publish it in the Government Gazette.
(1) To obey and respect the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives and all laws, and to obey the order of a person issuing a lawful order in the performance of official duties.
(2) To make decisions based on laws, regulations, work procedures, principles, and evidence, without any personal bias and without succumbing to any influence, and in doing so, to be sincere, fair, and diligent in one's work and one's duty.
(3) To treat others with respect when dealing with them in the course of official work.
(4) Not to use the power and authority vested in the Auditor General with malicious intent to obtain a benefit for a particular party or to cause harm, to use the discretion vested in the Auditor General within the scope of the law in a proper manner, and in exercising such discretion, to respect the rights, duties, and interests of the state and other persons.
(5) Except in the circumstances specified in Article 6(b) of this Act, not to solicit any aid, favor, hospitality, or gift from any party, either directly or indirectly.
(6) Not to place oneself in a situation where one is obliged to do something else in return for something done for one by a particular person or a particular party.
(7) While holding office and even after leaving office, to keep confidential the information obtained in the performance of one's duties and the confidential information obtained in connection with cases.
(8) To disclose information that must be disclosed to another party in a proper manner in accordance with the law, to inform the parties to whom the information must be communicated, to provide accurate information in the performance of official duties, and not to disclose incorrect or false information or information in a manner that distorts the truth.
(9) In selecting and appointing persons for the work of the Auditor General's Office, to consider the most fundamental pillar to be the possession of suitable competence and educational qualifications for the work, and in giving employment and promotion and in other matters relating to employees, to consider the main standard to be observed to be that they are persons who are suitable in terms of education, ethics, and work.
(10) Not to participate in political debates, not to use the position to achieve a political objective, not to do any act that indicates support for or opposition to political activities, and not to do any act that indicates that one is yielding to political influence.
(11) To constantly assess the situations in which the employees of the Auditor General's Office may be exposed to acts of corruption, and to shape their conduct, their job responsibilities, work ethics, and the administrative procedures of the Auditor General's Office in a way that does not pave the way for corruption.
(12) To implement the necessary procedures to raise the standards of the employees of the Auditor General's Office and to keep them away from acts of corruption, to provide them with education and training, to be vigilant of their financial situation to ensure that they are free from unjust enrichment, and to set an example for employees that is free from corruption.
(b) If the Auditor General or an employee of the Auditor General's Office is ordered, pressured, or compelled to do or not to do a certain act contrary to the code of conduct, or if undue influence is exerted in a manner that obstructs the work of the Auditor General or the employee of the Auditor General's Office from being carried out with integrity, the matter shall be submitted to the Anti-Corruption Commission and the People's Majlis without delay.
(c) The responsibilities set out in subsection (a) of this Article shall be deemed to be one of the fundamental principles of employment of the Auditor General and the employees of the Auditor General's Office. This is so even if there is no employment agreement, and even if any of these matters are not included in an existing employment agreement. And, a violation of any of these matters shall be deemed to be a situation giving rise to disciplinary action against that person.

Not to hold additional employment and not to engage in business with a conflict of interest

6-2.
(a) The Auditor General shall not hold any other paid employment or office. Nor shall he engage in any other work for which an income is received.
(b) The Auditor General shall not engage in any kind of business. Nor shall he do any act on a commercial basis. And he shall not buy or lease state property and land. And the Auditor General shall not have any financial interest, whether direct or indirect, in any transaction between the state and any other party.
(c) Except in his capacity as Auditor General, he shall not participate in any other commission, council, assembly, committee, board, or any other body of the state, whether for a fee or without a fee.
(d) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of this Article, the acquisition of shares in a public company whose shares are sold in the Maldives, in a manner that does not make one a significant shareholder of such a company, shall not be considered as engaging in business for the purpose of this Article. For the purpose of this Article, a "significant shareholder of a public company whose shares are sold in the Maldives" refers to a shareholder who is in a position to exert direct or indirect control over more than 5% (five percent) of the share capital of a public company whose shares are sold in the Maldives.
(e) The Auditor General shall not work for any party as a consultant.
(f) The Auditor General shall not become a member of a civil society organization of a nature that may conflict with the responsibilities he has to perform.
(g) For the purpose of subsection (b) of this Article, the sale of a plot of land, a house, or property in the name of the Auditor General for a price not exceeding the generally prevailing market price for such a plot of land, house, or property, and the earning of income by renting out such a plot of land, house, or property for a price not exceeding the generally prevailing rental price in the market, are not included within the business and work specified in subsection (b) of this Article.
(h) For a period of 12 (twelve) months following his departure from the office of Auditor General, the Auditor General shall not hold any employment or perform any work that conflicts with the interests he served in his capacity as Auditor General.

Avoiding Matters with a Conflict of Interest

6-3.
(a) No opportunity shall be given for any conflict to arise between the official duties to be performed by the Auditor General and his interests.
(b) For the purpose of the principle stated in subsection (a) of this Article, a conflict of interest of his spouse, his children, and other persons directly under his care shall also be considered a conflict of interest of the Auditor General.
(c) If a situation arises or is believed to be likely to arise in an audit conducted by the Auditor General's Office where the Auditor General's interests may conflict, he shall, after stating the fact, recuse himself from examining that matter. And he shall not exert any degree of influence on any party in the examination of that matter. And he shall not participate to any extent thereafter in the decision of that matter.
(d) The principles set out in subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this Article shall also apply, to the relevant extent, to the employees of the Auditor General's Office.
(e) A violation of a principle set out in subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this Article by the Auditor General shall be considered as having done an act unbecoming of his office, and shall be considered a situation in which he may be removed from office.
(f) A violation of a principle set out in subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this Article by an employee of the Auditor General's Office shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other article of this Act or in any other law, be considered as having done an act unbecoming of his office, and shall be considered a situation in which he may be removed from office.

Formulation of Policies

6-4. The Auditor General shall, within 6 (six) months of the passing of this Act, formulate and implement the necessary policies, procedures, training, and detailed regulations to implement the principles set out in Article 6-1 of this Act in their most complete form. And those regulations shall be detailed to the extent that it is clear what is permissible or what is prohibited in acting upon those regulations.

Adherence to Code of Conduct

6-5.
(a) The Auditor General, in the performance of his official duties, shall uphold the highest standards of the code of conduct set out in this Act, and shall adhere to those standards in all circumstances to an extent that it is known to others that he adheres to them.
(b) Just as the Auditor General is required to adhere to the code of conduct referred to in subsection (a) of this Article, the Auditor General shall ensure that the employees of the Auditor General's Office also adhere to that code of conduct.
(c) The Auditor General shall, in his personal and official capacity, uphold the independence, integrity, impartiality, and ethical and behavioral standards of the Auditor General's Office.

Violation of the Code of Conduct

6-6.
(a) A violation by the Auditor General of any of the code of conduct set out in this Act shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other article of this Act or in any other law, be deemed to be an act unbecoming of his office, and shall be deemed to be a situation giving rise to his removal from office.
(b) If the act committed by the Auditor General in violation of the code of conduct involves a criminal offense, the taking of the action specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall not be a bar to bringing a criminal charge against him.

Submission of Financial Statements

6-7.
(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law, or even if it has been the practice to act otherwise under such a law, after the commencement of this Act, the Auditor General shall act in accordance with the procedures set out in this Act when submitting financial statements.
(b) The person appointed as Auditor General shall, within 3 (three) months of assuming his office, submit to the People's Majlis a financial statement showing his income, the property in his name, and the debt obligations he has to pay at the time of assuming his office.
(c) In addition to submitting financial statements in accordance with subsection (b) of this Article, the financial statement for each year from the date of assuming office shall be submitted to the People's Majlis within 90 (ninety) days of the end of that year. For the purpose of this Article, a year is defined as the date on which 1 (one) year is completed from the date on which that person assumes the office of Auditor General.
(d) Within the first 3 (three) months after leaving or resigning from office, the Auditor General shall submit to the People's Majlis a financial statement showing his income and sources of income, the property in his name, and the debt obligations he has to pay at the time of leaving office.
(e) When the Auditor General submits financial statements under subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this Article, he shall also submit the financial statements of his spouse and children under the age of 18.
(f) The financial statements required to be submitted under subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this Article shall be prepared in accordance with a format prescribed by the People's Majlis.

Violation of the Code of Conduct by Employees

6-8.
(a) If an employee of the Auditor General's Office violates any of the code of conduct specified in subsection (a) of Article 6-1 of this Act, action shall be taken against that employee in accordance with the regulations for employees of the Auditor General's Office, taking into account the extent of the violation.
(b) The actions that may be taken against employees of the Auditor General's Office in the event of a breach of conduct in the circumstances specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be specified in the regulations for employees of the Auditor General's Office made under this Act.
(c) If an act committed by an employee of the Auditor General's Office in violation of the code of conduct involves a criminal offense, the taking of action in accordance with the regulations for employees of the Auditor General's Office under subsection (a) of this Article shall not be a bar to bringing a criminal charge against him.

Responsibilities of the Auditor General

    The responsibilities of the Auditor General are set out below.
    (a) To audit all state institutions, accounts, and state-owned enterprises;
    (b) To audit the accounts, financial records, and financial management of the following entities:
    (1) Any entity run mainly using state property and money;
    (2) Any business in which the government has a share.
    (c) To strengthen the financial affairs of state institutions, state-owned companies, and companies in which the state is a partner, and to increase accountability;
    (d) To establish the principles and regulations relating to auditing in the Maldives;
    (e) To do any act that the Auditor General is required to do by any other law.

Performance Audit

    The Auditor General may, at any time, conduct a performance audit of the following entities:
    (a) Ministries, departments, government offices, and various institutions;
    (b) State-owned enterprises or business entities in which the state has a controlling interest;
    (c) Government trusts, or trusts under the care of the government.

Powers of the Auditor General

    The powers vested in the Auditor General in the performance of his responsibilities are set out below.
    (a) To instruct all state institutions on how to maintain accounts and details of property and money in relation to all expenditures made from the state treasury;
    (b) In connection with an audit conducted by the Auditor General, to inspect all records, books, receipts, documents, cash, stamps, negotiable instruments, property, and other items, and the places where they are kept, and to copy such items;
    (c) To request any party to provide the information that the Auditor General needs to obtain in connection with his work and to clarify the matters that need to be clarified;
    (d) To determine the accounts to be given priority in auditing;
    (e) To appoint persons with the competence and capability to provide assistance to the Auditor General in connection with his work;
    (f) To delegate the work or part of the work of the Auditor General to a party designated by the Auditor General;
    (g) To determine the Audit Manual and Auditing Standards, with due regard to international audit principles used in auditing;
    (h) To do all things necessary in the performance of the responsibilities of the Auditor General;
    (i) To issue and revoke licenses to carry out audit work in the Maldives, and in accordance with those principles, to issue and revoke such licenses to various parties;
    (j) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (i) of this Article, the performance of audit work by various persons for their own personal use without a license is not prohibited.

Oath of the Auditor General

    The Auditor General shall assume his office upon taking the following oath before the President and signing the affirmation of that oath.
    "I, ...... (name of the person) ......, do swear in the name of Almighty Allah to respect the religion of Islam, to uphold the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives, to be loyal to the Maldivian nation, and to remain steadfast in performing the duties and responsibilities of the Auditor General with truthfulness and trustworthiness in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Maldives."

Providing Information

11.
(a) Every party from whom the Auditor General requests information required in the performance of his duties and responsibilities, and clarification of matters that need to be clarified, shall provide that information to the Auditor General.
(b) The Auditor General may direct a person to appear at a place and time determined by the Auditor General to answer questions. In this regard, in determining the time and place, the circumstances of the person being summoned shall be taken into account.
(c) If a person who is ordered to appear in accordance with the order in subsection (b) of this Article fails to appear without a reasonable excuse, that person shall be guilty of an offense. And a person who is guilty of an offense under this Article shall be liable to the following penalty.
(1) If the offense is committed by an individual, a fine not exceeding MVR 5,000 (five thousand);
(2) If the offense is committed by a legal person, a fine not exceeding MVR 25,000 (twenty-five thousand).

Entering Premises to Obtain Information

12.
(a) In order to obtain documents, information, and other evidence required in connection with work carried out by the Auditor General, the Auditor General or a person or persons appointed by the Auditor General may, without prior notice, enter state premises, inspect the documents on such premises, and copy the documents related to the work being carried out.
(b) If documents, information, and other evidence required in connection with work carried out by the Auditor General are located in a place other than the places specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the Auditor General or a person or persons appointed by him may, with a court order obtained upon satisfying the court that they are located there, enter such premises without prior notice, inspect the documents on such premises, and copy the documents related to the work being carried out.
(c) A person or persons appointed and sent under subsections (a) and (b) of this Article shall show an official document to the owner of the premises, or to the person in charge of the premises at that time, indicating that he is a person or persons sent on behalf of the Auditor General in connection with the work of the Auditor General.
(d) If the Auditor General or a person or persons designated by him visits a place in connection with the work to be done by the Auditor General, the persons present at that place at that time shall facilitate the work for which they came.

Auditing and Submitting Reports on the Annual Financial Statements of the State Budget

13.
(a) Within 3 months and 14 days of the end of each financial year, the Minister of Finance and Treasury shall prepare the annual financial statements of the state in accordance with Article 38 of the Public Finance Act and submit them to the Auditor General for audit.
(b) If the annual financial statements of the state have not been prepared and received by the Auditor General in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article, he shall inform the President and the People's Majlis of the fact in writing within 14 days.

Violation of Law and Regulations in Auditing

14.
(a) If, in the course of auditing, the Auditor General observes a violation of law and regulations in the receipt of money, the expenditure of money, the custody of money, the receipt, custody, issue, sale, or exchange of stamps, securities, or other property, or in accounting, he shall report the matter in writing to the President.
(b) The Auditor General shall have the discretion to arrange for a person who has committed an act referred to in subsection (a) of this Article to be suspended from employment until legal action can be taken against that person.

Fee Charged for Auditing

15.
(a) A fee may be charged, in accordance with a procedure determined by the Auditor General, from the entities designated by the Auditor General to be charged an audit fee from among the entities audited under this Act.
(b) The fee charged under subsection (a) of this Article shall be paid to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury within 30 days of being notified to pay it.
(c) If the audit fee is not paid within the period specified in subsection (b) of this Article, the state shall, on behalf of the Auditor General, sue to recover that money.

Annual Report of the Auditor General

16.
(a) Within 3 months of receiving the annual financial statements of the state specified in Article 13 of this Act, the Auditor General shall audit those statements and submit a report containing the work done by his office in auditing those statements, his opinion on those statements, and the remedial measures he deems appropriate, to the President and the People's Majlis. And that report shall be published for the public.
(b) An annual report compiled on the work done by the Auditor General's Office shall be prepared each year and sent by the Auditor General to the President and the People's Majlis along with the financial statements for that year. And within 14 (fourteen) days of sending the report to the President and the People's Majlis, the Auditor General shall publish that report for the public.

Resignation

    If the Auditor General wishes to resign from his office, he shall state the fact in a letter and submit it to the President. And upon receipt of that letter by the President, the Auditor General is deemed to have vacated his office.

Removal from Office

    The Auditor General may be removed from office if a committee of the People's Majlis finds that the Auditor General has committed an act unbecoming of his office, or that a situation has arisen that prevents him from performing the duties of that office, or that he is incapable of performing the duties of that office, and a resolution to remove the Auditor General from office is passed by a majority of the members present and voting at a sitting of the People's Majlis. Upon such a resolution being passed by the People's Majlis, the Auditor General is deemed to have been removed from his office from that moment.

Salary and Allowances

    The salary and allowances of the Auditor General shall be determined by the People's Majlis.

Administrative Management
Office Operating Expenses

20.
(a) In order to maintain the independence of the Auditor General and the Auditor General's Office, the Auditor General shall, 90 days before the beginning of each financial year, prepare a plan containing a work program for that year and a detailed budget required to carry out the work in that plan, and send it to the committee designated in the rules of procedure of the People's Majlis to oversee the work of the Auditor General's Office. The budget submitted by the Auditor General shall include the costs for the following matters:
(1) The salary and other allowances due to the Auditor General;
(2) The salaries and other allowances of the employees of the Auditor General's Office;
(3) The cost of training employees and raising the professional standards of employees;
(4) The cost of travel and other necessary activities to be undertaken by the employees of the Auditor General's Office in order to carry out the work of the Auditor General;
(5) The money required for the administrative expenses of the Auditor General's Office.
(b) The committee shall study the budget submitted by the Auditor General in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article, and after making the changes it deems appropriate, submit it to a sitting of the People's Majlis with a report of the committee. And funds shall be released from the state treasury to the Auditor General's Office in accordance with the manner in which the People's Majlis approves that budget.
(c) The money received for the budget shall be used in accordance with sound financial principles and standards to fully perform the work and duties of the Auditor General.
(d) A report on the work of the Auditor General's Office and its progress shall be prepared every three months and submitted to the committee designated in the rules of procedure of the People's Majlis to oversee the work of the Auditor General's Office.
(e) The audited annual financial statement and an annual performance report of the Auditor General's Office shall be submitted once every year to the committee designated in the rules of procedure of the People's Majlis to oversee the work of the Auditor General's Office. The performance report submitted in this manner shall state the extent to which the matters set out in the Auditor General's annual plan have been achieved and the reasons for the matters that have not been achieved.

Employment, Transfer, and Dismissal

21.
(a) The Auditor General shall have the power to employ the staff required for the Auditor General's Office to perform the duties and responsibilities of the Auditor General and to implement the powers of the Auditor General, to appoint additional staff, provide training, pay salaries, give promotions, provide allowances, and dismiss from their posts, in a manner not inconsistent with the budget approved by the People's Majlis for the operation of the Auditor General's Office each year.
(b) There shall be a special structure for the professional and other staff required for the Auditor General's Office. The regulations made under this Act shall include the employment, promotion, and terms and conditions of service of the employees included in this structure.

Audit of the Auditor General's Office
Auditing the Accounts of the Auditor General's Office

22.
(a) The committee designated in the rules of procedure of the People's Majlis to oversee the work of the Auditor General's Office shall each year appoint an independent auditor to examine and report on the annual financial statements of the Auditor General's Office, the accounts, and the manner in which the Auditor General's Office has been run.
(b) Within 2 months from the end of each financial year, the accounts of the Auditor General's Office shall be handed over for audit to the independent auditor appointed in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article.
(c) After completing the work specified in subsection (b) of this Article, the party entrusted with that work shall submit an audit report in writing to the President, the Speaker of the People's Majlis, and the Auditor General within 3 months.

Other Matters
Confidential Information

    Information received by all employees of the Auditor General's Office in their capacity as employees of that office is confidential information. And such information shall not be disclosed except in the circumstances specified in Article 24 of this Act.

Disclosure of Confidential Information

24.
(a)
(1) Disclosure of information that the Auditor General deems to be of public interest and important for the public to know;
(2) Disclosure to an authority or a person specified in a law or regulation for the purpose of implementing that law or regulation;
(3) Disclosure of information provided by a particular party to another party after obtaining the consent of the party who provided the information in writing;
(4) Information requested by the People's Majlis or a committee of the Majlis;
(5) Information requested for an investigation being conducted by a legally authorized investigative body;
(6) Information required to be disclosed under a court order.
(b) The penalty for a person who discloses information contrary to the provisions of subsection (a) of this Article is a fine not exceeding MVR 25,000 (twenty-five thousand).
(c) The penalty for a person who discloses or uses information for personal gain contrary to the provisions of subsection (a) of this Article is a fine of not less than MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) taking into account the benefit obtained by that person, and imprisonment for a term of between 3 months and 1 year.

Implementation of the Law and Making of Regulations

    The regulations to be made under this Act for the implementation of this Act shall be made and implemented by the Auditor General.

Offenses and Penalties

26.
(a)
(1) It is an offense to willfully obstruct the work to be done under the powers vested in the Auditor General under this Act, and to conceal the information he requires.
(2) The Auditor General shall send the case of a person who has committed an offense specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection to the Prosecutor General's Office for prosecution after reviewing the matter.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this Article, no person shall be compelled to give information against himself.
(c) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in subsection (a) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 75,000 (seventy-five thousand). Or imprisonment for a term of between 3 months and 1 year. Or both a fine and imprisonment.

Definitions of Words and Phrases
Words and Phrases

    In this Act, unless the context in which the phrase is included otherwise requires:
    "State funds" means all revenue, loans, trusts, and other money, and all stamps, bonds, debentures, and other securities, received, obtained, or accepted in the name of the state, in any manner whatsoever. This also includes money received or held otherwise than as state funds, as a public trustee, or as an official receiver, or as an attorney appointed by the state for that purpose.
    "Person" means a state institution or a state-owned enterprise or a business entity in which the state has a controlling interest or any entity specified as a person in any other law.
    "A person appointed by the Auditor General" means a person to whom he gives written authorization to do the things specified in this Act.
    "Financial year" means the period from 1st January to 31st December of each Gregorian year. In calculating this period, the start date and end date of the period are included.
    "Audit fee" means the remuneration paid to the auditing party for conducting an audit.
    "Performance audit" means to examine and assess the manner in which an entity's resources have been used and to examine and assess whether its work has been carried out in accordance with sound financial principles and standards.
    "State entities" means the entities specified in Article 8 of this Act.
