Broadcasting Act

Chapter One
Preliminary Matters

Introduction
1.
(a) This is an Act to establish a commission for the purpose of implementing broadcasting policies in the Maldives, to determine the responsibilities and duties of that commission, to state the general principles of broadcasting, to state the manner in which licenses for broadcasting shall be issued, and to state other matters related to broadcasting.
(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Broadcasting Act."

Purpose
2.
The purpose of this Act is to formulate, develop, and administer a broadcasting policy in the Maldives in order to facilitate the following:
(a) To uphold and promote the freedom of expression guaranteed under the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives;
(b) To contribute to nation-building, promote democracy, and to protect and enrich the religious, cultural, political, social, national, economic, and artistic fabric of the Maldives;
(c) Within the framework of this Act, to arrange for more than one party to participate in the dissemination of news and information, and to provide opportunities for diverse ideas and different perspectives;
(d) To introduce and establish the means to operate public broadcasting services, private media services, commercial broadcasting services, and community broadcasting services in the Maldives;
(e) To create ways for programs of information and awareness to be transmitted to various segments of the Maldivian population;
(f) To facilitate investment in the field of broadcasting in the Maldives, and to open opportunities for financial prosperity and fair competition in that field;
(g) To structure the field of broadcasting in the Maldives in a way that its powers do not concentrate in the hands of one group, and to open opportunities for fair competition;
(h) To promote programs that provide factual information;
(i) To create broadcasters who will focus on providing services to all citizens of the Maldives;
(j) To issue licenses to broadcasters who will serve various regions of the Maldives, and to provide broadcasting services to all corners of the country in the widest possible scope;
(k) To promote the appropriate use of new innovations;
(l) To encourage the promotion and enrichment of Maldivian productions in the field of broadcasting.

Chapter Two
Maldives Broadcasting Commission

Establishment of the Commission
3.
For the purpose of achieving the objectives stated in Article 2 of this Act, a commission by the name of [Maldives Broadcasting Commission] is hereby established by this Article to implement broadcasting policies in the Maldives, to defend and protect those policies, to monitor whether broadcasters act in accordance with those policies, to take action when various parties contravene those policies, to carry out other matters related to broadcasting policy, and to do what is necessary to responsibly strengthen the broadcasting service of the Maldives. This Commission is a commission with the power to sue and be sued in its own name.

Responsibilities of the Commission
4.
The responsibilities of the Commission are as follows:
(a) To formulate a plan on how to use the frequencies allocated for broadcasting;
(b) To manage the issuance of licenses to broadcasters;
(c) To ensure that broadcasters respect the conditions established for issuing licenses;
(d) To establish and maintain standards of conduct for broadcasters; and
(e) To advise the government on matters related to the field of broadcasting.

Members of the Commission
5.
(a) The Commission shall be composed of 7 (seven) members appointed in accordance with Article 6 of this Act. Each member shall be a capable, impartial person of good repute and morals by societal standards, who has education or experience in the field of broadcasting, especially in policy formulation, law, new innovations, journalism, and/or business.
(b) The members of the Commission must fulfill the following conditions:
1. Be a Muslim.
2. Be a Maldivian citizen.
3. Be 18 years of age or older.
4. Not be a person convicted by a court of law within the past 5 (five) years of an offense for which a hadd is prescribed in Islam or a crime of fraudulent conversion.
5. Not be a person holding a position elected or appointed under the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives or under a law.
6. Not be a person holding another employment in the Civil Service or in a company owned by the government or in which the government has shares.
7. Not be a person with a financial interest in the field of communication and broadcasting.

Appointment of Members
6.
(a) The members of the Commission shall be appointed by the President of the Republic in the manner stated in this Article.
(b) Each time it is necessary to appoint members to the Commission, the President of the Republic shall, after an announcement by the President's Office, send the names and curricula vitae of all applicants to the People's Majlis. When sending the list of applicants, the President of the Republic shall arrange the list in the order of preference for appointment to the Commission. The person or persons to be appointed to the Commission shall be the name or names approved by the Majlis and sent to the President of the Republic.
(c) The President of the Republic shall appoint the person or persons approved by the People's Majlis for appointment to the Commission as members of the Commission.

Term of Membership
7.
(a) A member appointed to the Commission shall remain in that position for a term of 5 (five) years from the date of their appointment.
(b) Upon the expiration of the term for which members are appointed to the Commission, those members may be reappointed to the Commission for an additional term.

President and Vice President of the Commission
8.
(a) The Commission shall appoint a President and a Vice President of the Commission from among its members.
(b) The President of the Commission shall preside over the meetings of the Commission, encourage the Commission to fulfill all the responsibilities assigned to it by this Act, and shall arrange the means for these tasks to be carried out.
(c) In a situation where the President of the Commission is unable to perform the duties of his position, or is on leave, or if the position becomes vacant, the duties of that position shall be temporarily performed by the Vice President of the Commission. In addition, he shall also perform the responsibilities assigned to the Vice President by the President of the Commission.

Vacancy of a Post
9.
(a) A post of a member of the Commission shall be deemed vacant in the following circumstances:
1. Upon the expiration of the term of membership.
2. Upon resignation.
3. Upon removal from membership of the Commission in accordance with Article 12 of this Act.
4. Upon appointment to a political post elected under the Constitution or a law.
5. Upon death.
6. Upon the loss of a characteristic required by this Act to be possessed by members of the Commission.
7. Upon being convicted of an offense for which a hadd is prescribed in Islamic Sharia.
(b) The post of the President or Vice President of the Commission shall be deemed vacant when a situation arises that is considered a reason for the post of a member of the Commission to become vacant.

Appointing to Vacant Posts
10.
(a) In a manner that a post of a member of the Commission does not remain vacant, new members shall be appointed to the Commission before the term of membership of the members of the Commission expires.
(b) If a post of a member of the Commission becomes vacant due to a situation stated in sub-paragraphs (2) to (7) of paragraph (a) of Article 9 of this Act, a person shall be newly appointed to that post within a maximum of 60 (sixty) days of the post becoming vacant.

Responsibilities of Commission Members
11.
The responsibilities of the members of the Commission are as follows:
(a) To attend the meetings of the Commission, except in the case of a clearly known excuse;
(b) To formulate the policies and standards that need to be determined regarding the work of the Commission, and to provide advice on how the work of the Commission will be carried out;
(c) To appoint a Secretary-General of the Commission;
(d) Every member appointed to the Commission shall, independently and without bias, in accordance with the regulations of the Commission and in line with public sentiment, perform the responsibilities and duties of membership. And to work at all times to promote broadcasting policies.

Removal from Membership
12.
(a) A member of the Commission may be removed from his position when one of the following situations arises, and upon the President of the Republic submitting the matter to the People's Majlis, or upon a relevant committee of the People's Majlis seeing fit and submitting it to the People's Majlis, and upon the passing of a resolution to remove that member from the Commission's membership by a majority of the members present and voting in a session of the People's Majlis.
1. Being declared bankrupt by a judicial ruling.
2. Inability to fulfill the responsibilities to be borne as a member of the Commission.
3. Negligence in fulfilling the responsibilities and duties of members as determined in this Act.
4. Acting contrary to broadcasting policy.
5. Failure to attend 3 (three) consecutive meetings of the Commission without a reasonable cause.
(b) When the People's Majlis passes a resolution to remove a member of the Commission from membership in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Article, he is removed from membership of the Commission.
(c) Before removing a member of the Commission from his position, the People's Majlis shall give him the opportunity to speak in his own defense.
(d) Every person who is removed from membership of the Commission shall be notified in writing stating the reason for his removal from membership.

Resignation
13.
(a) If a member of the Commission wishes to resign from his position, he may resign by a letter sent to the President of the Republic. Upon the President of the Republic receiving the letter of resignation, that member is removed from that position.
(b) The President and Vice President of the Commission shall also resign in the manner stated in paragraph (a) of this Article. In this way, even if the President or Vice President of the Commission resigns from his position, he shall not be considered to have resigned from his membership of the Commission.

Appointment of the Secretary-General and Staff of the Commission
14.
(a) The Commission shall appoint a Secretary-General to administer the office of the Commission. And, the Secretary-General shall administer the office of the Commission in accordance with the regulations made by the Commission.
(b) The person appointed to the post of Secretary-General of the Commission must be a person who fulfills the conditions required by this Act to be possessed by members of the Commission.
(c) The conditions for the post of Secretary-General of the Commission, and matters relating to finding and appointing a person to that post, shall be determined by the Commission.
(d) It is the responsibility of the Secretary-General to run the Commission in accordance with the policies determined by the Commission.
(e) If it is proven against the Secretary-General of the Commission that he has committed an act contrary to the laws and regulations of the Maldives, he may be removed from his position by a majority vote of the Commission. If the Secretary-General is removed from his position in this way, the reason for the removal must be notified to him in writing. And he has the right to submit the matter to a court of law regarding that decision.
(f) In accordance with the budget allocated to the Commission, and upon the advice of the Secretary-General, the Commission shall establish an office comprising of adequate staff to carry out the tasks that the Commission needs to do.
(g) The Secretary-General and staff of the Commission shall be independent and impartial in the performance of their duties and shall be a group that works in accordance with broadcasting policies.

Remuneration and Other Financial Benefits
15.
(a) The remuneration and other financial benefits to be given to the President, Vice President, and members of the Commission shall be determined by the People's Majlis. And the travel expenses incurred by the President, Vice President, and members of the Commission in their official capacity shall be arranged by the Commission in accordance with the budget allocated to the Commission.
(b) The remuneration and financial benefits given to the President and Vice President of the Commission shall not be reduced during their term of office. And the remuneration and financial benefits given to the members of the Commission shall also not be reduced during their term of membership.
(c) The remuneration and other financial benefits to be given to the staff of the Commission shall be determined by the Commission upon the advice of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury.

Financial Matters
16.
(a) The Commission may acquire funds in the following ways:
1. Broadcasting license fees collected under this Act;
2. Funds disbursed from the state budget;
3. Grants from domestic or foreign parties;
4. Loans; and
5. Funds acquired through other means not in conflict with the laws and regulations of the Maldives.
(b) Before the end of each year, a budget for the funds required to carry out the responsibilities of the Commission for the upcoming year shall be prepared and submitted to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, which shall then be sent to the People's Majlis for its approval.
(c) The accounts relating to the income, expenditure, assets, and financial liabilities of the Commission shall be written and maintained in accordance with the regulations made by the Commission with the consultation of the Auditor General, and after auditing, a financial statement shall be sent to the President of the Republic and the People's Majlis along with the annual report mentioned in Article 20 of this Act, in accordance with the Public Finance Act and regulations.

Commission's Rules of Procedure
17.
(a) The Commission shall make and implement the regulations that must be made under this Act. And the work of the Commission shall be carried out in accordance with those regulations.
(b) The Commission shall hold meetings as often as it deems necessary to carry out its work. And a period of more than 30 (thirty) days shall not pass between any two meetings.
(c) A meeting of the Commission shall be held upon the instruction of the President of the Commission, or in the absence of the President, the Vice President. However, if 3 (three) members of the Commission request to hold a meeting, a meeting of the Commission must be held within 7 (seven) days.
(d) The legal quorum for holding a meeting of the Commission is a majority of the members of the Commission.
(e) In the decisions of the Commission, efforts shall be made to decide matters by consensus of the Commission. In cases where consensus cannot be reached, and unless the Commission has decided otherwise, matters shall be decided by a majority of the members present and voting in the session. If the votes for and against a matter are equal, the matter shall be decided by the vote of the person presiding over the session. Except in a situation where the votes for and against are equal, the person presiding cannot participate in the vote.
(f) Minutes shall be taken of all meetings of the Commission. And in each meeting, the minutes of the previous meeting shall be approved, and the person who presided over that meeting shall sign those minutes.
(g) Unless the Commission decides otherwise, the Secretary-General shall participate in every meeting of the Commission without the right to vote.
(h) The Commission has the discretion to invite any person it wishes to seek advice on a matter being discussed in a meeting of the Commission. However, a person participating in a session in this manner does not have the right to vote.

Disclosure of Conflicts of Interest
18.
(a) If the Commission is considering a matter in which any member has a personal interest, or role, or financial benefit, or any other benefit, that member must disclose this at that meeting.
(b) Matters disclosed under paragraph (a) of this Article shall be included in the minutes of that meeting of the Commission.
(c) After disclosing an interest in a matter as per paragraph (a) of this Article, that member may not participate in the discussion or decision regarding that matter.

Powers of the Commission
19.
In order to carry out its responsibilities, the Commission has the following powers:
(a) To issue, renew, and temporarily suspend broadcasting licenses;
(b) To summon and question people to investigate matters that need to be investigated in order to fulfill the responsibilities of the Commission as determined in this Act;
(c) To take action in situations where action needs to be taken as determined by law;
(d) To formulate and enforce a Code of Conduct for parties that provide broadcasting services; and
(e) To do other necessary things to carry out the tasks assigned to the Commission under this Act.

Annual Report
20.
(a) The Commission shall send an annual report prepared on its activities to the President of the Republic and the People's Majlis before February 28 of each year.
(b) The annual report mentioned in paragraph (a) of this Article shall include the following matters:
1. Details of the work carried out and the extent to which the objectives of the Commission have been achieved;
2. A copy of the auditors' report;
3. Information regarding issued licenses, submitted complaints, and conducted studies;
4. Details of the cases in which the Commission has taken action and the actions taken;
5. Any changes that have occurred in the membership or structure of the Commission; and
6. If it is deemed that any change should be brought to the administration of the Commission.

Chapter Three
Types of Services

Types of Broadcasting Services
21.
(a) The Commission shall determine which part of the electromagnetic wave spectrum will be used for broadcasting in the Maldives.
(b) The Commission shall prepare a "Broadcasting Frequency Plan" which includes a locator map, in order to make full use of the frequencies designated for broadcasting and to facilitate broadcasting in the widest possible area. And it is the responsibility of the Commission to make amendments to this plan. The work of making and amending this plan shall be done in consultation with the government and other relevant parties.
(c) The Broadcasting Frequency Plan mentioned in paragraph (b) of this Article shall be formulated in accordance with the broadcasting policy determined by the government, for the following areas on a uniform basis for the broadcasting frequency spectrum:
1. Public Broadcasting;
2. Commercial Broadcasting; and
3. Community Broadcasting.
(d) The Broadcasting Frequency Plan and amendments made to that plan shall be publicly published and made available to many parties.
(e) In order to ensure that frequencies are available on an equal and wide-ranging basis, some frequencies may be reserved in the Broadcasting Frequency Plan for later use by a particular type of broadcaster.

Chapter Four
Licenses

Obtaining a License for Broadcasting
22.
(a) Any party shall provide a broadcasting service in the Maldives only under a license to provide broadcasting services issued by the Commission, and in accordance with the conditions of that license.
(b) The power to issue and renew licenses for providing broadcasting services is vested solely in the Commission.
(c) The Commission shall maintain a register of parties to whom broadcasting service licenses have been issued. And the information contained in this register shall be publicly available.
(d) The Commission shall publicly disclose information on the licenses for providing broadcasting services issued by the Commission, and in such a way that the different types of licenses are separately identifiable.

Licenses Issued at the Commencement of the Act
23.
(a) Licenses issued for providing broadcasting services in the Maldives at the time of the commencement of this Act shall be considered valid licenses for the purposes of this Act.
(b) Parties who have obtained a license to provide broadcasting services in the Maldives at the time of the commencement of this Act must fulfill the matters stated in Chapter Six of this Act regarding the issuance of licenses, within a period of no later than 12 (twelve) months from the date of commencement of this Act.

Applying for a License
24.
(a) Licenses for providing broadcasting services shall be issued through a bidding process or in response to applications submitted for that purpose.
(b) Based on the broadcasting policy, the Broadcasting Frequency Plan mentioned in Article 21 of this Act, the parties applying for broadcasting services, and the market conditions, if the Commission deems it beneficial to the public, a tender shall be opened to issue an additional license for providing a broadcasting service.
(c) If a tender is opened under paragraph (b) of this Article, the Commission shall publicly announce it widely and shall make public all information regarding the license to be issued and all information regarding the submission of bids.
(d) A party wishing to provide a broadcasting service, other than a service provided nationwide or only in Malé, may submit an application to obtain a license at any time.
(e) The Commission shall, in advance, make public a regulation containing information on how to apply for a license to provide broadcasting services, details of the information to be submitted, a sample of the form for such applications, and a schedule of annual license fees.
(f) Applications for a license to provide broadcasting services shall include at least the following information regarding that service:
1. Company profile;
2. Method of financing, and a financial plan prepared for the duration of the license;
3. The company's administrative and operational structure, and details of the facilities and staff available to provide the service;
4. Program schedule; or if it is a party providing cable TV or satellite TV services, information on the channels proposed to be provided as a basic service, and additional channels that will be available for purchase;
5. Information on the technical facilities to be used to provide the service;
6. Which license is being applied for from among the types of licenses made public under paragraph (d) of Article 22 of this Act.

Re-broadcasting License
25.
A license to re-broadcast in the Maldives may be issued by the Commission in accordance with the following conditions and on a principle determined by the Commission:
(a) The channel for which re-broadcasting is requested must be a channel broadcast in another country under a broadcasting license issued in accordance with the laws and regulations of that country.
(b) The party applying for the license must be the party that has the right to re-broadcast the re-broadcasted content.

Reviewing License Applications
26.
(a) The Commission shall use an equal and transparent system in reviewing applications for licenses.
(b) In deciding whether to issue a license for providing broadcasting services, the Commission shall consider the following matters:
1. Whether the party applying for the license is technically capable of providing a high-quality service; in considering this, the type of service that party has requested to provide shall be considered.
2. Any potential harm to the competitiveness of the industry;
3. The attention that needs to be given to promoting Maldivian productions created with the needs of the Maldivian people in mind.
(c) The Commission may charge a fee for carrying out the work of issuing licenses in connection with applications for licenses to provide broadcasting services. If such a fee is charged, a schedule of the fee to be charged by the Commission shall be included in the regulations made under this Act.
(d) The decision of the Commission shall be notified in writing to all parties applying for a license within 30 (thirty) days. If the Commission decides not to issue a license, the reason for deciding not to issue the license shall be stated in that letter.

License Frequency
27.
The Commission shall consult with the Ministry of Transport and Communication in order to issue licenses for providing broadcasting services and licenses for using radio and TV frequencies under a single principle and in accordance with the Broadcasting Frequency Plan.

License Renewal
28.
(a) An application for renewal of a license must be submitted to the Commission before 3 (three) months prior to the expiration of a broadcasting service license issued by the Commission.
(b) Except in the following circumstances, the Commission shall renew the license of a party to whom a broadcasting service license has been issued:
1. Violation of a condition among the conditions determined for issuing the license; and/or
2. The Commission deems it necessary to withhold renewal of the license for the public interest, and the broadcasting policy allows for such action.
(c) In reviewing an application for license renewal, the Commission has the discretion to request new or additional necessary information.
(d) If a license is withheld from renewal, before making the final decision on the matter, the reason for it shall be notified to that party in writing, and an opportunity shall be given to that party to submit in writing their views on the matter.

Conditions for License Recipients
29.
A license to provide broadcasting services under this Act shall be issued only to parties who fulfill the following conditions:
(a) The party to whom the license is issued must be a private limited company, or a public limited company, or a company established by a presidential decree, or a company established by a specific law, or a cooperative society;
(b) Not be a company run to promote a specific political party;
(c) Not be a company in which a share is held by an employee working at the policy-making level among the employees of the Ministry and offices within the Ministry's purview.

General Conditions for Issuing Licenses
30.
(a) A license issued to a specific party may be transferred to the name of another party only with the permission of the Commission.
(b) Fulfilling the requirements that must be met when applying for a license shall be considered a condition for issuing the license. In this way, submitting a program schedule shall also be considered a condition for issuing the license.
(c) If a service is not commenced within 12 (twelve) months from the date specified in a license issued by the Commission for the commencement of the service, that license shall become void.
(d) A party that has obtained a license to provide broadcasting services may transmit test signals in a manner consistent with the principles determined by the Commission for the purpose of testing the facilities used for transmission.
(e) Every party that has obtained a license to provide broadcasting services must keep the master recording and on-air log of the programs and advertisements it broadcasts for at least 2 (two) months from the day it was broadcast. However, if a problem arises in connection with a specific program or advertisement that was broadcast, upon the request of the Commission, the master recording and on-air log of that broadcast must be kept by the broadcasting party until the matter is resolved.
(f) Licenses of the following types shall remain valid for the periods stated below:
1. A license for community broadcasting shall remain valid for a period of 3 (three) years.
2. A license for commercial radio and television broadcasting shall remain valid for a period of 10 (ten) years.
(g) Parties that have obtained a broadcasting license shall report to the Commission once every year on the extent to which they are complying with the conditions of the license and on the activities they conduct.

Copyright
31.
A party that has obtained a broadcasting license shall only broadcast programs that it produces or for which it has the right to broadcast. And the copyright must be clearly displayed within the credits of every program.

Local Content Standards
32.
Every party that has obtained a license to provide broadcasting services shall include local content in the content transmitted through the service it provides, at least to the following standards:
(a) 10% (ten percent) within 6 (six) months of the commencement of this Act;
(b) 15% (fifteen percent) within 2 (two) years of the commencement of this Act;
(c) 25% (twenty-five percent) within 5 (five) years of the commencement of this Act.

Annual License Fee
33.
(a) The Commission shall, in consultation with relevant parties in the broadcasting sector, and with consideration to the economic situation, and based on the category of the service and its type and scope, formulate a schedule containing the annual fee payable for broadcasting services.
(b) The annual fee schedule mentioned in paragraph (a) of this Article shall come into effect upon being sent to the People's Majlis for its information, and after 30 (thirty) days have passed, and upon its publication in the Government of Maldives Gazette.

Station Identification
34.
(a) Every party that has obtained a license to provide broadcasting services must register the name, or logo, or station identification of the broadcasting service it provides with the Commission after submitting it to and getting it approved by the relevant government authorities.
(b) If the broadcast is visual, the logo or station identification must be visible on the screen at all times.
(c) If the broadcast is via audio, an announcement indicating the station's identification must be transmitted at least once every 30 (thirty) minutes. This does not include hours purchased from the broadcaster on a commercial basis and programs transmitted with permission from the Commission. However, if the duration of re-broadcasted programs is longer than 60 (sixty) minutes, an announcement or sign indicating the station's identification must be shown at least once every 60 (sixty) minutes.

Special Conditions for Issuing Licenses
35.
(a) The Commission has the discretion to require parties applying for a license to fulfill conditions related to matters that the Commission deems essential to implement broadcasting policy.
(b) The conditions mentioned in paragraph (a) of this Article may include the following:
1. Determining the minimum hours of broadcasting required once a day, or once a week, or once a year;
2. Determining technical conditions such as output power;
3. Setting the local content standard to a higher standard than the minimum standard specified in this Act.
(c) A special condition for issuing a license under this Article may be determined only if the following are fulfilled:
1. The condition must be related to broadcasting;
2. The condition is determined for the purpose of expanding broadcasting policy;
3. The condition must be reasonable for the licensee and be something the party can fulfill.

Amending a License
36.
The Commission has the discretion to amend the conditions specified in the issuance of a license for the purpose of expanding broadcasting policy.

Chapter Five
Broadcast Content

Code of Practice
37.
(a) The Commission shall, in consultation with broadcasters, journalists, and other relevant parties in the field, formulate a "Code of Practice" for broadcasters to follow. And if necessary, that code shall be reviewed and amended.
(b) The Code of Practice mentioned in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be publicly published, and a copy of it shall be given to every party to whom a license is issued.
(c) The Code shall address matters related to programming, including the following:
1. In presenting news and current affairs programs, giving priority to presenting them impartially and equally, and working to disseminate true information;
2. Not showing anything that undermines the dignity and rights of children;
3. Classifying programs and films in an age-appropriate manner;
4. The procedures and standards to be followed in conducting interviews and the ways in which they can be edited;
5. The use of information recorded without permission, and the use of the equipment used for that purpose;
6. Not showing anything that falls within the meaning of pornography, or any material containing scenes or sounds depicting sexual acts, or scenes and sounds depicting sexual organs, or scenes of objects made to resemble sexual organs for the purpose of sexual intercourse, and any material containing sounds depicting such scenes;
7. Not showing anything containing words that could be defamatory to a person or a group, or that could undermine their honor and dignity, or that could cause them some form of degradation, and words, gestures, movements, and actions that are not appropriate for use in society;
8. Differentiating between real and fictional content;
9. Not showing anything that is disrespectful to people of different races, or to a specific gender, or to any age group, or to people with special needs, or anything that undermines human dignity;
10. The importance of respecting the freedom of individuals;
11. Not using low-quality scenes and sounds;
12. Advertising;
13. Not broadcasting anything prohibited by religion or by the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives or by a law, and not broadcasting anything that encourages the promotion of any religion other than Islam.
(d) In formulating and implementing the Code of Practice, the Commission shall make reasonable efforts to facilitate competitive debate in a democratic society with diverse participation, the creation of independent, creative, and interesting programs, and the provision of balanced and informative content through a variety of programs or program series.

Advertising
38.
Broadcasters have the right to present advertisements in accordance with the following principles and the Code of Practice:
(a) Not to advertise any goods or services that are prohibited for the protection of the environment and health, or any goods or services that encourage the use of alcohol, narcotics, or tobacco.
(b) Not to advertise in a way that could mislead the recipients of the goods or services.

Chapter Six
Service Provision

Charging for Broadcasting Services
39.
(a) A party providing a broadcasting service under a license shall charge a price for providing that service only after submitting that price to and getting it approved by the Commission.
(b) If a broadcaster decides to charge a price for any channel that is being provided without a charge, the Commission and the recipients of the service must be notified of this at least 2 (two) months in advance.

Temporary Interruption of a Service
40.
(a) If a broadcaster decides to temporarily interrupt any service, after obtaining permission from the Commission 15 (fifteen) days before doing so, the recipients of the service must be notified 7 (seven) days in advance.
(b) If any service is temporarily interrupted or stopped due to a matter beyond the control of a party providing a broadcasting service under a license, the Commission shall provide the most complete solution available under this Act to resolve the issue.

Cessation of Service
41.
If a party providing a service under a broadcasting service license discontinues that service before the expiration of the license period, the Commission must be notified of this at least 15 (fifteen) days in advance, stating the reason for it. And it must be publicly announced within the same period. If the recipients of the service are individually known, they must be directly notified.

Chapter Seven
Non-compliance with Law and Regulations

Submitting Complaints and Monitoring
42.
(a) If any party finds that a party licensed to provide broadcasting services has contravened the Code of Practice mentioned in Article 37 of this Act, that party may submit a written complaint to the Commission. And unless the Commission finds that the complaint is baseless, every such complaint must be investigated by the Commission.
(b) It is the responsibility of the Commission to monitor whether a party licensed to provide broadcasting services is acting in accordance with this Act. And in this manner, those parties shall be monitored, and if it is found that they have contravened this Act or a condition of the license, the Commission must investigate the matter.
(c) If an investigation conducted by the Commission under paragraph (b) of this Article reveals a violation by a party licensed to provide broadcasting services, the matter shall be notified to that party in writing, and a reasonable opportunity shall be given to express their views on the matter. If the investigation was conducted in connection with a submitted complaint, a reasonable opportunity shall also be given to the complainant to express their views on the matter.

Decisions
43.
(a) Except in special circumstances, the Commission must make a decision on a submitted complaint or an investigation within 2 (two) months.
(b) If the Commission decides that a party licensed to provide broadcasting services has contravened this Act, or a condition of the license, or the Code of Practice, the reason for such a decision, and if action is to be taken in connection with the matter under Article 44 of this Act, and the fact that the broadcaster has the right to appeal the decision to the relevant authority, shall be publicly published along with the decision on the matter. And a copy of the Commission's decision on the matter shall be provided to the broadcaster and the complainant.

Taking Action
44.
(a) If the Commission decides that a party licensed to provide broadcasting services has contravened this Act, or a condition of the license, or the Code of Practice, the Commission has the discretion to take one or more of the following actions:
1. To order the licensee to rectify the matter.
2. To publicly publish a warning given to the licensee.
3. To order the licensee to make a public correction of the offense or to make a public statement retracting what was done, at a time and in a manner directed by the Commission.
4. To order the licensee to do or refrain from doing certain things that are essential to correct the offense and prevent its recurrence.
(b) If a party licensed to provide broadcasting services repeatedly violates a condition of the license, the Commission may fine that party an amount not exceeding 2% (two percent) of the income received by that party in the preceding year.
(c) If a party licensed to provide broadcasting services continues to violate the law and regulations, and fails to rectify the matter upon being ordered to do so, the Commission has the discretion to order the temporary suspension of a part of that party's program schedule. And if such an act or acts are repeatedly committed, the license issued to that party may be revoked upon submission to a court and based on the court's decision.
(d) If a party licensed to provide broadcasting services violates a matter in this Act or the regulations made under this Act regarding the content it broadcasts, an action among the actions stated in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Article shall not be taken unless it is passed by a majority of the total members of the Commission and unless the matter is not rectified after taking other measures.
(e) If any party provides a broadcasting service without a license, or transfers a license issued by the Commission without obtaining the Commission's permission, the Commission has the discretion to order the cessation of such a service, or to fine the party providing that service, and/or to seize the equipment used for that purpose.
(f) If any party fails to comply with an order issued by the Commission under this Article, it shall be considered that the party has disobeyed an order of the Commission. And the Commission has the discretion to submit the matter to the relevant authority to prosecute for disobedience of an order.

Chapter Eight
Miscellaneous Matters

Seeking the Rights of Broadcasting Service Providers
45.
If any party's rights have been infringed by a decision of the Commission to issue or not to issue a license, or to renew or not to renew, or to set conditions in issuing a license, or to take or not to take action against a licensee, the matter may be submitted to a court within 3 (three) months of the decision being made, seeking to have the decision changed.

Making Regulations
46.
All regulations that need to be made under this Act shall be made and implemented by the Commission.

Commencement of the Act
47.
This Act shall come into force 90 (ninety) days from the date it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government of Maldives Gazette.

Definitions
48.
Unless otherwise stated in this Act, the following words and phrases shall be interpreted as follows:
"Service Recipient" refers to parties who receive the broadcasting services of broadcasters under this Act upon payment of a fee.
"Re-broadcasting" refers to the re-broadcasting of another party's content from a center established in the Maldives, without any additions or omissions.
"Broadcasting" refers to the transmission of sound and visuals, or sound, or visuals to the public or a specific group using any medium. However, the presentation of sound and visuals in a public place for the purpose of showing or playing to a group is excluded from this definition. In this Act, the word "Broadcasting" is interpreted to refer to both broadcasting and re-broadcasting.
"Broadcasting Service" refers to the work of transmitting content to a service recipient.
"Broadcasting License" refers to a license issued under Article 24 of this Act to provide broadcasting services within the territory of the Maldives.
"Content" refers to news, information, advertisements, and other materials transmitted or disseminated by a broadcasting service provider.
"Advertisement" refers to special content related to a particular matter, place, object, or product, transmitted through a broadcaster to promote it or to increase its popularity.
"Exclusive Right to Broadcast" refers to a special permission granted to only one party to broadcast or re-broadcast specific content.
"Audio" refers to sound that can be heard using or through an electronic device.
"Visual" refers to a picture that can be seen using or through an electronic device.
"Ministry" refers to the ministry entrusted with the responsibility of formulating broadcasting policy and overseeing matters related to broadcasting.
"Licensee" refers to a party that has obtained a license mentioned in Article 23 of this Act, issued under this Act for providing broadcasting services within the territory of the Maldives.
"Local Content" refers to productions created by a group under the full control of the licensee, materials prepared for the licensee's use under their guidance, even if made by another party, materials produced with Maldivian ownership for the benefit of or in relation to Maldivian society, and materials produced by Maldivians or under the guidance of Maldivians for Maldivians related to the Maldives, the Dhivehi language, or Maldivian culture or interests. Content produced by dubbing foreign content into the Dhivehi language shall not be considered local content.
"Program Schedule" refers to a plan formulated regarding the general programs proposed for broadcasting, the time allocated for presenting programs and advertising within the broadcast time, and the target audience of the programs.
