Chemical Weapons Prohibition Act

Chapter One
Preliminary Provisions

1. Introduction and Name

(a) This is the Act to prohibit the development, production, stockpiling, and use of chemical weapons in the Maldives and to specify and declare the procedures and principles to be followed in their destruction.

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Chemical Weapons Prohibition Act".

2. Purpose

The purposes of this Act are set out below.

(a) To identify chemical weapons that are significantly harmful to humans and the environment in accordance with the international Chemical Weapons Convention to which the Maldives is a party, and to establish principles regarding the prohibition of their development, production, stockpiling, and use;

(b) To declare the principles for the implementation of the responsibilities incumbent upon the Maldives under the international Chemical Weapons Convention to which the Maldives is a party;

(c) To establish the principles to be followed in granting permits to parties that produce, store, use, or transport chemical weapons;

(d) To establish a system for the inspection and verification of places where chemical weapons are produced, stored, or used, and to establish the methods to be followed in the destruction of chemical weapons;

(e) To establish a system for taking action against parties who commit acts prohibited by this Act.

3. Scope of the Act

This Act shall apply to acts committed or omitted by the following parties:

(a) Any natural or legal person within the territory of the Maldives or in a place where the Maldives has jurisdiction in accordance with international law;

(b) Any Maldivian citizen over whom the Maldives has jurisdiction in accordance with international law, even if they are outside the territory of the Maldives.

4. Types of Chemicals Specified in the Schedules

(a) Schedules 1, 2, and 3 of this Act shall include the following types of chemicals specified in Schedule 1, Schedule 2, and Schedule 3 of the Convention.

(1) Schedule 1 (Schedule 1 of the Convention); This schedule includes the most dangerous types of chemicals among those specified in the Convention. This type of chemical may only be produced or used for research, medical treatment, pharmaceutical purposes, or for protective purposes.

(2) Schedule 2 (Schedule 2 of the Convention); This schedule includes types of toxic chemicals (2A) specified in the Convention, and precursor chemicals (2B) for the types of chemicals included in Schedule 1 of the Convention or the types included in 2A of Schedule 2. These types of chemicals are used in small quantities in industrial activities.

(3) Schedule 3 (Schedule 3 of the Convention); This schedule includes types of toxic chemicals (3A) specified in the Convention, and precursor chemicals (2B) for the types of chemicals included in Schedule 1 of the Convention or the types included in 2B of Schedule 2. These types of chemicals are used in large quantities in industrial activities.

(b) If an amendment is made to any Schedule of the Convention referred to in subsection (a) of this Article, the changes that must be made to the Schedules of this Act in connection with that amendment shall be published in the Government of Maldives Gazette by the Chemical Weapons Unit within a maximum of 10 (ten) days from when the amendment is made to the Schedule of the Convention.

Chapter Two
Chemical Weapons Unit

5. Chemical Weapons Unit

(a) Upon the commencement of this Act, a special unit of the Ministry, named the "Chemical Weapons Unit," is hereby established to carry out all matters concerning the implementation of this Act.

(b) The Chemical Weapons Unit shall operate under the Ministry and be answerable to the Minister. The Minister shall, within 30 (thirty) days of the commencement of this Act, appoint a person to be responsible for the administrative affairs of the Unit.

(c) The details of how the work of the Chemical Weapons Unit shall be conducted shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

(d) The Minister shall arrange the administrative and financial arrangements required for the Chemical Weapons Unit, established under subsection (a) of this Article, to fulfill its responsibilities.

6. Responsibilities of the Chemical Weapons Unit

The responsibilities of the Chemical Weapons Unit are set out below.

(a) To issue the licenses and registrations that must be issued under Chapter Three of this Act in accordance with this Act;

(b) To provide assistance to relevant authorities in formulating a national program to implement matters that must be implemented by the Maldives in relation to the Convention, and in connection therewith, to regularly send the required reports to the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (the Organisation);

(c) To seek the advice and assistance of technical experts and experienced persons from within and outside the Maldives to achieve the objectives of the Convention;

(d) To fulfill all obligations incumbent upon the Maldivian state under the Convention;

(e) To work together with other states that have signed the Convention, in its capacity as the National Coordinator of the Maldives for chemical weapons;

(f) To provide or share the information that must be provided or shared with the Organisation and other states that have signed the Convention, under the Convention;

(g) To plan, monitor, and maintain the progress of the work of implementing the principles and systems established in this Act and the regulations made under this Act;

(h) In the event of the use of chemical weapons against the Maldives, or in a situation where there is a threat of such a weapon being used against the Maldives, to seek the assistance and protection of another country that has ratified the Convention, or to provide such requested assistance and protection to another country in such a situation;

(i) To provide training to the inspectors of the Maldives appointed under this Act;

(j) To collect the information required for the reports and annual reports that must be sent to the Organisation under the Convention;

(k) To formulate the regulations, principles, and frameworks that must be formulated to achieve the purpose of the Convention with regard to the toxic chemicals and their precursors specified in the Schedules of this Act, and the discrete organic chemicals specified in this Act;

(l) To monitor the manner in which the Convention is being implemented in the Maldives;

(m) To inspect the facilities that must be inspected under this Act;

(n) To cooperate and provide assistance in the inspection activities carried out by international inspectors;

(o) To carry out other responsibilities that must be carried out by the Chemical Weapons Unit in order to implement this Act and the Convention.

7. Powers of the Chemical Weapons Unit

The Chemical Weapons Unit has the following powers under this Act.

(a) In the event that the Chemical Weapons Unit observes that any party is not acting in accordance with this Act or is not fulfilling a responsibility that must be fulfilled under this Act, to carry out the necessary inspections, and in doing so, to seize items that must be seized and to take samples during the inspection;

(b) To prohibit the use of items imported or being used in violation of this Act, and to order the destruction of, and to destroy, such items;

(c) To request any person to provide any information that the Chemical Weapons Unit, based on reasonable grounds, believes is necessary for the Maldives to comply with the Convention;

(d) To provide information on and coordinate with laboratories that handle toxic chemicals or their precursors, to the Organisation;

(e) For a purpose permitted under the Convention, to control the chemicals specified in Schedule 1 of this Act, and to determine the quantity of chemicals specified in Schedules 2 and 3 of this Act or their precursors that may be produced, acquired, received, stored, transported from one place to another, or used.

8. Power to Request Information

(a) The Chemical Weapons Unit has the power to order a government institution or a private party that imports, exports, or supplies chemicals specified in Schedules 2 and 3 of this Act or precursor chemicals of such chemicals, and unscheduled discrete organic chemicals, chemical weapons, chemical production facilities, and riot control agents, to provide information related to such transactions.

(b) It is prohibited for any party, in complying with an order issued by the Chemical Weapons Unit under subsection (a) of this Article, to submit incorrect information or a false statement to the Chemical Weapons Unit.

Chapter Three
Procedures for Issuing Licenses

9. Chemicals in Schedule 1

Except for a purpose permitted under this Act and in accordance with a license issued by the Chemical Weapons Unit under this Act, it is prohibited to produce, acquire, possess, transport from one place to another, or use a chemical specified in Schedule 1 of this Act.

10. Chemicals in Schedules 2 and 3 and Unscheduled Discrete Organic Chemicals

(a) Except in accordance with the conditions specified in a license issued by the Chemical Weapons Unit under this Act in relation to the chemicals in Schedules 2 and 3 of this Act and discrete organic chemicals not included in the schedules of this Act, it is prohibited to do the following:

(1) To produce, process, or use more than 1 (one) kilogram per year of a chemical marked with a '*' in Schedule 2A of this Act for a permitted purpose;

(2) To produce, process, or use more than 100 (one hundred) kilograms per year of another chemical in Schedule 2A of this Act for a permitted purpose;

(3) To produce, process, or use more than 1 (one) ton per year of a chemical in Schedule 2B of this Act for a permitted purpose;

(4) To produce more than 30 (thirty) tons per year of a chemical in Schedule 3 of this Act for a permitted purpose;

(5) To produce through synthesis more than 200 (two hundred) tons of a discrete organic chemical not included in any schedule of this Act, or more than 30 (thirty) tons of a discrete organic chemical not included in a schedule but containing phosphorus, sulfur, or fluorine elements.

(b) If a party has, for a permitted purpose, produced, processed, or used a chemical in Schedule 2 of this Act in the following quantities within the past 3 (three) years starting from the current year, that party must obtain a license in accordance with this Act.

(1) 1 (one) kilogram of a chemical marked with a '*' in Schedule 2A of this Act;

(2) 100 (one hundred) kilograms of another chemical included in Schedule 2A of this Act;

(3) 1 (one) ton of a chemical included in Schedule 2B of this Act.

(c) Notwithstanding paragraphs (3), (4), and (5) of subsection (a) of this Article, if a chemical in Schedule 2B or a chemical in Schedule 3 is present in a concentration of 30% (thirty percent) or less in chemical mixtures used in the production, processing, or use of any other substance, a license under this Act is not required.

11. Importing and Exporting Chemicals

A chemical specified in the schedules of this Act may be imported into or exported from the Maldives only after obtaining a license issued by the Chemical Weapons Unit in the manner specified in this Act and the regulations made hereunder, and in accordance with the conditions specified in that license.

12. Issuance of Licenses

(a) Applications for the licenses mentioned in Articles 9, 10, and 11 of this Act shall be submitted to the Chemical Weapons Unit. The Unit is empowered to charge a fee in relation to such applications in the manner prescribed in the regulations made under this Act.

(b) The issuance of licenses under subsection (a) of this Article, the matters to be considered in issuing such licenses, the duration of the license, the conditions of the license, the circumstances under which a license may be suspended, revoked, or extended, and the procedures related thereto shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

13. Recusal of Licensing Officials due to Conflict of Interest

No employee designated for the task of issuing licenses as specified in this Act and the regulations made hereunder shall engage in any activity that creates a conflict of interest with their work at the Chemical Weapons Unit, such as working in, managing, being a shareholder of, or providing advice to a chemical weapons-related facility.

14. Registration

(a) A chemical in Schedule 2 or Schedule 3 of this Act, or a discrete organic chemical not included in any schedule of this Act, may be produced, processed, or used in excess of the quantities specified in subsection 10(a) of this Act only after registering with the Chemical Weapons Unit.

(b) The procedures for registering with the Chemical Weapons Unit under subsection (a) of this Article shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

15. Permitted Purpose

For the purposes of this Act, "permitted purposes" are stated to be the following.

(a) For the types of most dangerous chemicals specified in Schedule 1 of this Act, for the following purposes:

(1) For conducting research;
(2) For providing medical treatment;
(3) For use as pharmaceuticals;
(4) For use in taking a protective measure.

(b) For toxic chemicals and precursor chemicals specified in the other schedules, excluding the types of most dangerous chemicals specified in Schedule 1 of this Act, for the following purposes:

(1) For activities in the industrial or agricultural sectors;
(2) For conducting research;
(3) For providing medical treatment;
(4) For use as pharmaceuticals;
(5) For use in taking a protective measure. Especially for purposes related to protection from toxic chemicals and chemical weapons;
(6) For military purposes not connected with the use of chemical weapons or the toxic properties of chemicals;
(7) For law enforcement purposes by the security services;
(8) For other peaceful purposes.

Chapter Four
Disclosure and Provision of Information

16. Provision of Information

The following parties shall maintain information on their activities related to the chemicals specified in this Act and on facilities producing discrete organic chemicals, and shall send it to the Chemical Weapons Unit annually, as specified in the regulations made under this Act.

(a) Any party conducting any activity related to any chemical specified in this Act;

(b) Parties that produce more than 200 (two hundred) tons per year of any chemical or discrete organic chemical; and

(c) Parties that produce more than 30 (thirty) tons per year of any discrete organic chemical not specified in the schedules of this Act that contains phosphorus, sulfur, or fluorine.

17. Information to be Disclosed to the Organisation

(a) For the purpose of implementing this Act, if the Chemical Weapons Unit requests any party to clarify or provide information in order to send the information that must be disclosed by the Maldives to the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, that information must be provided.

(b) All information and reports that must be prepared in relation to the chemicals specified in the schedules of this Act or their precursors, and all information and reports that the Convention requires to be sent to the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons regarding the production of discrete organic chemicals, shall be prepared by the Chemical Weapons Unit as specified in the Convention and sent to the Organisation.

18. Confidentiality of Information

(a) No party shall, in contravention of this Act, directly or indirectly, disclose any information collected or obtained under this Act to any other party without the permission of the party to whom the information relates.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, this Article does not prevent the disclosure of information that must be disclosed by the Maldives to the Organisation under the Convention, or in a public interest emergency situation for the purpose of implementing this Act.

(c) The penalty for a person who violates this Article is a fine of between MVR 200,000 (two hundred thousand) and MVR 400,000 (four hundred thousand) or imprisonment for a term of between 3 (three) years and 10 (ten) years, depending on the severity of the act committed.

Chapter Five
Inspection

19. Methods of Inspection

For the purpose of achieving the objectives of this Act, places where chemicals in the schedules of this Act are used or where chemical weapons are handled, produced, or stored may be inspected in one of the following two ways.

(a) Inspection by inspectors of the Maldives;

(b) Inspection by international inspectors in accordance with a facility agreement signed between the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and the Maldives.

20. Power of Inspection

For the purpose of enforcing this Act or the regulations made hereunder, in the event that the Chemical Weapons Unit deems it necessary to inspect a place, the Unit has the power to do the following in order to inspect such places in accordance with the safety and security procedures established therein.

(a) To enter and inspect premises;
(b) To analyze substances and take samples thereof;
(c) To measure substances;
(d) To inspect documents, copy necessary documents, and take documents;
(e) To make copies of a document or part of a document;
(f) To interview persons working at the inspected site and to record those interviews;
(g) To operate equipment used at the inspected site, including electronic devices;
(h) To take photographs and to make video recordings;
(i) To carry out other necessary actions to expedite the matters specified in this Article, including controlling the persons and vehicles that can enter the inspected site.

21. Obtaining a Court Order for Inspection

(a) Notwithstanding Article 20 of this Act, if the owner or operator of a place does not grant permission to enter a place for inspection, the Chemical Weapons Unit shall enter that place to perform its duties under this Act under a court order.

(b) If an application is submitted to the relevant court for an order as described in subsection (a) of this Article, the court may issue such an order in one of the following circumstances.

(1) The court believes, based on reasonable grounds, that entry into the place to be inspected is something that the Chemical Weapons Unit must necessarily do under this Act;

(2) The court believes that entering the place to conduct tests, analyze, make necessary observations, take photographs, make videos, or take samples and make necessary findings is something that the Chemical Weapons Unit must necessarily do under this Act.

(c) When applying to the court for an inspection order under this Article, the Chemical Weapons Unit must submit to the court the matters suspected of being carried out in contravention of this Act at that place, and the reason for requesting the court order.

(d) The court has the discretion to grant permission to enter and inspect the place, with or without specific conditions, in a court order issued under this Article. Such an order must state the period for which the order will remain in effect.

(e) In connection with an inspection carried out by international inspectors under Article 24 of this Act, if the owner or operator of a place in the Maldives does not consent to entering a place for inspection, that place shall be entered under a court order. In such a case, the Chemical Weapons Unit shall apply to the court for a court order. In such a situation as well, the matters stated in subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this Article must be fulfilled.

22. Assisting in Inspections

In inspections conducted under this Act, the person in charge of the place or the employees of that place, or any person present at that place, shall cooperate with the inspection work carried out by the inspectors as specified in the Convention.

23. Appointment of Maldivian Inspectors

(a) The inspections conducted under this Act shall be carried out by inspectors appointed by the Minister for that purpose.

(b) Each inspector appointed by the Minister under subsection (a) of this Article shall be issued a document indicating that he is a person appointed by the Minister.

(c) The document referred to in subsection (b) of this Article must be shown to the owner of the place where the work is being carried out or to the most senior person in charge of that place at that time, during the inspectors' working hours. If this document is not shown, the owner of the place or the most senior person in charge of that place at that time has the power not to allow such an inspector to enter such a place to conduct an inspection.

24. International Inspectors

In the manner specified in this Act and the regulations made hereunder, places where chemicals specified in the schedules of this Act or chemical weapons are handled, produced, or stored may be inspected by international inspectors with the permission of the owner of those places.

25. Privileges of International Inspectors

International inspectors conducting inspection activities in the Maldives and observers included in such inspection teams shall have the following privileges, in accordance with the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, while in the Maldives during an inspection they are conducting in the Maldives or in transit for a journey undertaken by an international inspection team to conduct such an inspection.

(a) The members of the international inspection team shall enjoy full personal inviolability. They shall not be liable to any form of arrest or detention. The Maldives shall treat them with due respect and shall take all appropriate steps to prevent any attack on their person, freedom, or dignity.

(b) The premises where members of the international inspection team live and work shall enjoy all the privileges accorded to the premises where diplomatic agents live and work under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations 1961.

(c) The members of the international inspection team shall be immune from the criminal jurisdiction of the Maldives. In this regard, they shall be immune from all matters such as conducting a criminal investigation against them, prosecuting them, and compelling them to give evidence. Furthermore, except in the following circumstances, a civil or administrative action shall not be brought against them in the Maldives.

(1) A real action relating to private immovable property situated in the Maldives, unless he holds it on behalf of the sending State for the purposes of the inspection;
(2) An action relating to succession in which the inspector or observer is involved as executor, administrator, heir or legatee as a private person and not on behalf of the State to which the inspector or observer belongs;
(3) An action relating to any professional or commercial activity exercised by the inspector or observer in the Maldives outside his official functions.

(d) The papers, correspondence, and records used by members of the international inspection team shall enjoy all the privileges accorded to the papers, correspondence, and records used by diplomatic agents under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations 1961. In this regard, they shall have the right to use codes in their communications with the Technical Secretariat of the Organisation.

(e) No tax or fee of any kind shall be levied on members of the international inspection team, except for the following types of taxes.

(1) Indirect taxes of a kind which are normally incorporated in the price of goods or services;
(2) Dues and taxes on private immovable property situated in the territory of the Maldives, unless he holds it on behalf of the sending State for the purposes of the inspection;
(3) Estate, succession or inheritance duties levied by the receiving State, subject to the provisions of paragraph 4 of Article 39 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations;
(4) Dues and taxes on private income having its source in the Maldives;
(5) Charges levied for specific services rendered and capital taxes on investments made in commercial undertakings in the Maldives.

26. International Inspectors Engaging in Business

It is prohibited for members of an international team and observers involved in an inspection to conduct any business transaction in the Maldives for personal gain.

27. Duty Exemption for Inspection Equipment and Personal Belongings of Inspectors

(a) The equipment and samples used in an inspection carried out by international inspectors involved in the inspection shall enjoy full protection. And any such item shall be exempt from import duty.

(b) International inspectors shall be permitted to import into the Maldives any item for their personal use that is permitted to be imported into the Maldives under the relevant laws of the Maldives. And any such item shall be exempt from import duty.

28. Waiver of Privileges

If it is believed that a privilege granted under this Act to a member of an international team involved in an inspection may impede the course of justice, and if waiving such a privilege would not be an impediment to the implementation of the Convention, the Director-General has the power to waive that privilege.

29. Seizure of Illegally Imported Chemicals

If any chemical is found to have been imported into the Maldives in violation of this Act and any regulation made hereunder, the Maldives Customs Service has the power to seize such a chemical, treating it as a prohibited import, in accordance with the relevant laws and regulations.

Chapter Six
Offences and Penalties

30. Offence related to Schedule 1 Chemicals

(a) A person who does the following commits an offence.

(1) To produce, acquire, possess, or use a Schedule 1 chemical outside the territories under the jurisdiction of States Parties to the Convention;
(2) To produce, acquire, possess, or use a Schedule 1 chemical without obtaining the required license under this Act;
(3) To transfer a Schedule 1 chemical from the territory of a State Party to the Convention to the territory of a State not party to the Convention;
(4) Unless otherwise specified in this Act, to transfer a Schedule 1 chemical to a State Party to the Convention without giving 60 (sixty) days' notice to the Chemical Weapons Unit;
(5) To transfer a Schedule 1 chemical that has been transferred to a State Party to the Convention, to a third country.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an offence specified under subsection (a) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand) and MVR 1,000,000 (one million) or imprisonment for a term of between 5 (five) years and 20 (twenty) years, depending on the severity of the offence committed.

31. Offence related to Schedule 2 Chemicals

(a) It is an offence to transfer a Schedule 2 chemical or a product containing such a chemical to a State not party to the Convention, or to bring it from such a country.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, the following products shall not be considered as products containing a Schedule 2 chemical for the purpose of subsection (a) of this Article.

(1) Products containing 1% (one percent) or less of a chemical included in Schedule 2A or 2A* of this Act;
(2) Products containing 10% (ten percent) or less of a chemical included in Schedule 2B of this Act;
(3) The product being a consumer good packaged for personal use in retail trade.

(c) The penalty for a person who commits the offence specified in subsection (a) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand) or imprisonment for a term of between 2 (two) years and 10 (ten) years.

32. Offence related to Schedule 3 Chemicals

(a) It is an offence to transfer a Schedule 3 chemical to a State not party to the Convention without obtaining an end-user certificate.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits the offence specified in subsection (a) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand) and MVR 250,000 (two hundred and fifty thousand) or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 (two) years, depending on the severity of the act committed.

33. General Offences

(a) A person who does the following commits an offence.

(1) To develop, produce, acquire, stockpile, or retain chemical weapons;
(2) To transfer, directly or indirectly, chemical weapons to another person;
(3) To use chemical weapons;
(4) To engage in any military preparations to use chemical weapons;
(5) To assist, encourage, or induce, in any way, a person to engage in any activity prohibited to States Parties under the Convention;
(6) To use a riot control agent as a method of warfare in any military preparation to use chemical weapons;
(7) To engage in any other activity prohibited to States Parties under the Convention.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an offence specified under subsection (a) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand) and MVR 1,000,000 (one million) or imprisonment for a term of between 10 (ten) years and 20 (twenty) years, depending on the severity of the offence committed.

(c) If any party has acted in contravention of this Article, the Chemical Weapons Unit has the power, without prior notice, to seize the weapon for the state and to keep it in safe custody until it can be destroyed.

34. Offences related to Inspection

(a) It is an offence to do any of the following during an inspection conducted under this Act.

(1) To fail to provide assistance and cooperation, without a reasonable excuse, to inspectors and their assistants involved in an inspection;
(2) To obstruct or hinder any member of an inspection team or an observer from performing their duties;
(3) To destroy or damage any equipment or device installed by inspectors, with the intent to adversely affect that work.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits the offence specified in paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of this Article is a fine not exceeding MVR 200,000 (two hundred thousand) or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 (two) years.

(c) The penalty for a person who commits the offence specified in paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (a) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 200,000 (two hundred thousand) and MVR 400,000 (four hundred thousand) or imprisonment for a term of between 3 (three) years and 10 (ten) years.

35. Aiding and Encouraging Offences

It is an offence to assist, encourage, or induce, in any way, the commission of an act prohibited by the Convention. The penalty for a person who commits such an offence is the penalty prescribed in this Act for the person who committed that offence.

Chapter Seven
Miscellaneous

36. Schedules

The 3 schedules contained in this Act are part of this Act. Those three schedules and the amendments made to those schedules under subsection 4(b) of this Act shall also be read together with this Act.

37. Making and Implementing Regulations

(a) Regulations shall be made under this Act regarding the following matters.

(1) Issuing licenses for the import and export of chemicals into the Maldives under this Act;
(2) Issuing licenses for the facilities specified in this Act;
(3) Standards for facilities;
(4) Conditions to be met for the storage, warehousing, transport, packaging, labelling, and advertising of chemicals;
(5) Conditions and procedures for record-keeping and reporting;
(6) Procedures to be followed in the destruction of chemical weapons.

(b) All regulations necessary for the implementation of this Act shall be made and implemented by the Chemical Weapons Unit on the advice of the Minister. Those regulations shall be made and published in the Government of Maldives Gazette within 6 (six) months from the date of commencement of this Act.

(c) Subsection (a) of this Article does not prevent the Chemical Weapons Unit from making other regulations in addition to the regulations made under subsection (a).

38. Precedence of the Act

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law, this Act shall take precedence in matters concerning the principles to be followed in the production, storage, use, or transport of chemical weapons, or in the commission of acts prohibited under the Convention using chemical weapons, riot control agents, and toxic chemicals, or with regard to chemical precursors and discrete organic chemicals whose production is permitted under the Convention.

39. Commencement of the Act

This Act shall come into force on the date of completion of 3 (three) months from the date on which this Act is passed, ratified, and published in the Government of Maldives Gazette.

40. Definitions

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given below.

(a) "Chemical Weapons Unit" means the Chemical Weapons Unit for chemical weapons established under this Act.

(b) "Convention" means "The Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction 1993".

(c) "Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons" or "Organisation" means the Organisation established by the Member States of the Convention under Article VIII of The Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction 1993, to carry out the responsibility of ensuring the implementation of the Convention.

(d) "Chemical Weapons" means the following, together or separately.

(1) Toxic chemicals and their precursors, except where intended for purposes not prohibited under the Convention, as long as the types and quantities are consistent with such purposes;
(2) Munitions and devices, specifically designed to cause death or other harm through the toxic properties of those toxic chemicals specified in sub-paragraph (1), which would be released as a result of the employment of such munitions and devices;
(3) Any equipment specifically designed for use directly in connection with the employment of munitions and devices specified in sub-paragraph (2).

(e) "Precursor" means any chemical reactant which takes part at any stage in the production of any toxic chemical.

(f) "Riot Control Agent" means any chemical not listed in a Schedule, which can produce rapidly in humans sensory irritation or disabling physical effects which disappear within a short time following termination of exposure.

(g) "Toxic Chemical" means any chemical specified in Schedules 1, 2, and 3 of this Act, which through its chemical action on life processes can cause death, temporary incapacitation or permanent harm to humans or animals. This includes all such chemicals, regardless of their origin or of their method of production, and regardless of whether they are produced in facilities, in munitions or elsewhere.

(h) "Unscheduled Discrete Organic Chemical" means any chemical belonging to the class of chemical compounds consisting of all compounds of carbon except for its oxides, sulfides and metal carbonates.

(i) "Verification Annex" means the "Annex on Implementation and Verification" included with the Convention.

(j) "Production" of a chemical means its formation through chemical reaction.

(k) "Processing" of a chemical means a physical process, such as formulation, extraction and purification, in which a chemical is not converted into another chemical.

(l) "Consumption" of a chemical means its conversion into another chemical via a chemical reaction.

(m) "Transfer", "transport", "bring", "give" or "send" means the import, export, transport, transshipment, or transit of a chemical from one place to another or from one person to another.

(l) "International Inspectors" means individuals designated by the Organisation under Part II, Section A of the Verification Annex of The Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction to carry out an inspection or to be present at places in the manner specified in the Convention.

(m) "Chemical Weapons Production Facility" means a place built or constructed for the production or storage of chemicals from 1 January 1946 onwards, or for such a purpose.

(n) "Facility" means plants where chemicals are produced, laboratories where they are handled and maintained, storage sites, and places where administrative records of these matters are kept.

(o) "End-User Certificate" means a certificate issued by a relevant ministry of the country to which an item of any kind is being exported when it is transferred from one country to another, stating that the recipient of the item is the sole user of it.

(p) "Facility Agreement" means an agreement concluded between the Organisation and other countries that have signed the Convention to conduct on-site verification with respect to a specific facility in relation to chemical weapons, the facilities that produce these weapons, and activities permitted under the Convention.

(q) "Director-General" means the Director-General of the Technical Secretariat of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.

(r) "Ministry" means the government ministry entrusted with the responsibility of organizing and conducting matters related to chemicals and chemical weapons.

(s) "Minister" means the minister of the government ministry entrusted with the responsibility of organizing and conducting matters related to chemicals and chemical weapons.

Schedule 1
Schedule 2
Schedule 3
