Clemency and Reduction of Sentence Act

Introduction and Name

1. (a) This is an Act to specify, with reference to Article 115(z) of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives, the procedures for granting pardons and commuting sentences for individuals convicted of criminal offenses who have no further opportunity for appeal.

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Clemency and Reduction of Sentence Act".

Purpose

2. The purpose of this Act is to achieve the following objectives:

(a) To establish, in accordance with this Act, procedures for granting pardons and commuting sentences for persons convicted of criminal offenses who have no further opportunity for appeal within the judicial system.

(b) To establish a procedure under this Act to provide relief from punishment for a person convicted of a criminal offense, based on their age, illness, ongoing medical treatment, their current situation and circumstances, or on humanitarian grounds.

(c) To establish the procedure for granting general amnesty as set forth in this Act.

No Opportunity for Appeal

3. For the purposes of this Act, persons convicted of a criminal offense who have no further opportunity for appeal within the judicial system shall be the following:

(a) Persons who have exhausted all stages of appeal; or

(b) Persons who, due to a valid excuse, have not utilized the opportunity to appeal to the High Court of the Maldives within the period prescribed by law; or

(c) Persons who, due to a valid excuse, have not utilized the opportunity to appeal to the Supreme Court within the period prescribed by law;

(d) Persons whose sentence consists solely of paying a specific amount of money and who wish to accept the judgment and waive their right to appeal.

Categories of Pardon and Reduction of Sentence

4. Under this Act, pardoning offenses and commuting sentences are divided into the following 5 categories:

(a) Pardoning the sentence imposed on a person for an offense they committed;

(b) Postponing the execution of a sentence imposed on a person for an offense they committed for a specific period;

(c) Reducing the duration of the sentence imposed on a person for an offense they committed;

(d) Changing the type of sentence of a person to a lesser type of punishment, where the law provides for the imposition of lighter sentences for the offense committed;

(e) Where the sentence imposed on a person for an offense is the payment of a specific sum of money, releasing them from that obligation and freeing them from the payment of that money; or reducing the amount of money to be paid.

Non-Pardonable Offenses

5. (a) The following are offenses for which a pardon cannot be granted under Article 4(a) of this Act, or for which the sentence cannot be postponed under Article 4(b), or for which a pardon cannot be granted under any other article of this Act. However, this Act does not preclude the reduction of the sentence for such offenses under Article 4(c), or the commutation of the type of sentence under Article 4(d), or any other form of relief under any other article of this Act.
(1) The offense of murder.
(2) Offenses for which a Hadd (fixed punishment) is prescribed in Islamic Sharia.
(3) The offense of terrorism.
(4) The offense of sexual abuse of a child.
(5) Any offense under any law where a life sentence has been imposed for possessing more than 14 (fourteen) grams of narcotics.
(6) The offense of committing an immoral act by force (rape).
(7) The offense of same-sex relations.

(b) Even if a person sentenced under a criminal judgment for theft of property or money belonging to an individual or the state is pardoned or their sentence is commuted under this Act, the obligation to repay the value of the stolen property or the stolen money shall not be pardoned or reduced, notwithstanding any other provision in this Act.

(c) If the offense committed by a person involves the violation of another person's right, the offender shall not be pardoned, notwithstanding any other provision in this Act, as long as that right has not been settled. However, the sentence of a person in such a situation may be commuted.

Submitting a Petition for Pardon

6. (a) If any person wishes to submit a petition for a pardon or commutation of sentence under any of the categories specified in this Act, it must be done using the designated "Petition Form for Pardon and Reduction of Sentence".

(b) The form mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be addressed to the President of the Republic and submitted to the President's Office.

(c) The "Petition Form for Pardon and Reduction of Sentence" shall be available from administrative offices designated by the President's Office.

Period for Submitting Petitions

7. A person may submit a petition under this Act for a pardon or commutation of sentence only after having served one-fourth of the sentence imposed for the crime for which they were convicted, except in cases where the sentence is solely the payment of a specific amount of money.[1]

Circumstances for Submitting Petitions

8. A petition for pardon or commutation of sentence may be submitted under this Act if the person is in a situation described in Article 3 of this Act and has completed the period specified in Article 7 of this Act.

Review of Petitions

9. Upon submission of a petition for pardon or commutation of sentence to the President of the Republic, the Board established by the President under Article 10 of this Act shall study the petition and provide advice to the President on how to proceed.

Clemency Board

10. (a) To fulfill the responsibilities stated in Article 9 of this Act and other responsibilities required by this Act, the President of the Republic shall form a board of 11 members named the "Clemency Board".[2][3]

(b) The President of the Republic shall appoint persons to and dismiss persons from the Board established under subsection (a) of this Article.

(c) The Attorney General shall formulate and publicly announce a regulation detailing the procedures for appointing and dismissing members of the Board established under subsection (a) of this Article, the procedures for holding its meetings, and the procedures for its decision-making.

(d) The Board established under subsection (a) of this Article shall operate under the supervision of the Attorney General. And for the purposes of this Act, the Attorney General shall be the chairperson of the Board.

Board Members

11. The President of the Republic shall give priority to including persons from the following fields in the Board established under Article 10 of this Act:
(a) A person from the legal field.
(b) A person from the educational field.
(c) A person from the social field.
(d) A person from the health field.
(e) A person of religious scholarship.
(f) A person from a civil society organization.
(g) A person from the Parole Board.
(h) A person from the police force.
(i) A person from the judicial field.
(j) A member appointed by the People's Majlis from among its members.

Powers of the Board

12. (a) This Act grants the Board the authority to question necessary parties and summon necessary parties when studying a petition as stated in Article 9 of this Act.

(b) This Act also grants the Board the authority to conduct necessary studies and examinations as stated in Article 9, to seek the assistance of any institution of the Maldivian state if the Board deems it necessary, to obtain any report or document related to the case from any state institution if the Board deems it necessary, and to seek answers to various questions from relevant government officials or employees in person, in writing, or orally, if the Board deems it necessary.

Not Reviewing a Matter of Personal Interest

13. No member of the Board shall participate in any capacity in the study of, or decision-making on, any petition being reviewed by the Board in which the member has a personal interest, role, financial benefit, or any other personal gain. And if a member was not previously aware that a petition being reviewed by the Board involved such an interest, role, benefit, or gain, upon becoming aware of it, the member must inform the chairperson of the Board that the petition has a connection to them in the aforementioned capacity and must recuse themselves from reviewing or participating in the decision-making of that petition.

Dealing with the Aggrieved Party

14. (a) If a person has suffered a loss due to the crime committed by the petitioner seeking a pardon or commutation of sentence, the Board is obligated to inform the aggrieved person of the following information as soon as the review of the petition begins:
(1) That a petition for a pardon or commutation of sentence has been submitted;
(2) That they have the opportunity to submit to the Board any point or points they wish to make regarding the pardon or commutation of sentence;
(3) If the President of the Republic makes any decision regarding the petition, what that decision is.

(b) For the purpose of this Article, a matter that the Board is required to notify the victim of a crime under this Act shall be considered notified when, in cases where the person does not request otherwise, the information is sent in writing via registered post to the person's officially registered address.

Meeting with the Aggrieved Party

15. (a) If the offense for which a petition for pardon or commutation of sentence has been submitted is one that caused harm to any party, and if a majority of the Board members determine that it is essential to meet with that party to clarify their views on the matter, the Board must meet with the party harmed by the petitioner's offense. In other circumstances, doing so is at the discretion of the Board.

(b) In determining whether it is necessary to meet with a person harmed by the offense, the Board shall consider the following:
(1) The severity of the offense;
(2) The remoteness or recency of the offense;
(3) The nature of the offense;
(4) The extent of the harm caused by the offense;
(5) The criminal record of the offender;
(6) If the offender has a history of committing crimes;
(7) The extent to which violent acts were involved in the commission of the offense.

Victim of the Crime

16. For the purpose of this Act, the victim of the crime shall be considered one of the following parties:

(a) The person who has suffered direct physical, material, psychological, or financial harm as a result of the offense, or the person who was made to fear such direct harm; or

(b) If a person has died as a result of the crime, their heirs.

Advising the President of the Republic

17. (a) Upon receiving a petition for review, the Board shall study the petition and provide written advice to the President of the Republic within a maximum of 90 (ninety) days.

(b) The advice given by the Board to the President of the Republic under subsection (a) of this Article shall be based on one of the following categories:
(1) Recommending to grant a pardon or commute the sentence as requested;
(2) Recommending not to grant a pardon or commute the sentence as requested, and also not recommending a pardon or commutation in any manner falling under the categories permitted by this Act;
(3) Recommending not to grant a pardon or commute the sentence as requested, but recommending a pardon or commutation in a manner falling under one of the categories permitted by this Act, and specifying which category.

(c) In formulating its advice under this Article, the Board shall clearly state the reasons upon which the advice is based.

Notifying of Pardon or Commutation of Sentence

18. (a) If the President of the Republic decides to grant a pardon or commute a sentence as requested in a petition, the President shall notify the petitioner and all relevant state institutions of the matter in writing.

(b) If the President of the Republic decides not to grant a pardon or commute a sentence as requested in a petition, the President shall notify the petitioner of the matter in writing. The reasons for the President's decision not to grant the pardon or commute the sentence shall also be included in the letter sent by the President.

Not Acting on Advice

19. (a) When the Board advises the President of the Republic to act in a particular way regarding a petition for pardon or commutation of sentence, the President has the discretion to act in accordance with that advice or not.

(b) If the President of the Republic decides not to act in accordance with the advice given by the Board regarding a petition for pardon or commutation of sentence, the President shall inform the Board in writing of the reason for such a decision.

Disclosure of Information

20. (a) When a petition for pardon or commutation of sentence is submitted, documents exchanged between relevant state institutions regarding the petitioner, and documents considered relevant to the case, shall, as a general rule, be shared only among the persons and institutions involved in the review of the petition.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, if the Board deems it necessary to disclose some or all of that information to uphold justice under a specific law or due to a specific circumstance, that information may be disclosed.

Special Procedure Regarding a Death Sentence

21. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act, if the Supreme Court imposes a death sentence on a person, or if the Supreme Court upholds a death sentence imposed on a person by a lower court or the High Court, the President of the Republic has the discretion under this Act to commute their sentence to life imprisonment, taking into account the person's situation, relevant legal principles, the interest of the state, and humanitarian principles. However, after such a commutation, the commuted sentence shall not be a sentence that can be pardoned under any article of this Act.[4]

Conditional Pardon or Commutation of Sentence

22. (a) The President of the Republic has the discretion to grant a pardon or commute a sentence under any category specified in this Act, subject to a condition determined by the President.

(b) If a condition imposed by the President of the Republic under subsection (a) of this Article is violated, the pardon or commutation of sentence shall become void, and the person shall revert to the state they were in before the pardon or commutation was granted by the President. The remaining portion of the sentence that was pardoned or commuted shall then begin to apply to them.[5]

Information to be Accurate

23. (a) When submitting a petition under this Act for a pardon or commutation of sentence, it is an obligation imposed by this Act on the petitioner to fully and truthfully disclose or state all information included in the petition or submitted in connection with the petition.

(b) If, during the review of any petition under this Act, it is noted that any information included in the petition or submitted in connection with it is incorrect, it shall be considered a violation of this Article, and the President of the Republic shall have the discretion to not proceed with the petition from that point.

Criteria to be Considered when Pardoning a Crime while a Sentence is being Served

24. If a petition for a pardon is submitted while a person is serving a sentence, the Board shall consider the following when reviewing the petition:
(a) Information about the case.
(b) Matters noted during the investigation of the case.
(c) The nature of the misconduct.
(d) The circumstances under which the criminal act was committed.
(e) The extent of the damage caused by the criminal act.
(f) The circumstances under which the damage from the criminal act occurred.
(g) The extent of the petitioner's involvement in other criminal cases.
(h) The convict's reputation in the community.
(i) The extent of the harm suffered by the victims.
(j) The points considered during prosecution.
(k) The petitioner's conduct after the verdict.
(l) Efforts made to stay away from criminal acts.
(m) Conduct during the enforcement of the sentence.
(n) The extent to which the question of whether they will re-offend if pardoned can be answered.

Criteria for Commuting a Sentence

25. If a petition is submitted to commute a sentence while it is being served, the Board shall consider the following when reviewing the petition:
(a) The severity and gravity of the sentence.
(b) The measure or proportion of other sentences given for that offense as a general rule.
(c) The presence of a special illness.
(d) Advanced age.
(e) Service rendered to the nation.
(f) The manner of interaction with entities within the criminal justice system up to the point of conviction.
(g) The portion of the sentence that has been served and completed.
(h) Conduct during the enforcement of the sentence.
(i) Efforts made to seek forgiveness from those harmed by the criminal act.

Criminal Record Not Being Expunged as a Result of Pardon

26. (a) Except for the criminal records of persons falling under the circumstances described in Article 29(a) of this Act, the criminal record of any other person pardoned under this Act shall not be expunged, even if they are pardoned.

(b) If the President of the Republic pardons the offense of a person falling under the circumstances described in Article 29(a) of this Act, their criminal record shall be expunged.

No Prejudice to Claiming Compensation

27. Even if a person is pardoned for a crime under this Act, or if the sentence imposed on them for the crime they committed is commuted, the right of the party who suffered loss as a result of the crime to sue for compensation shall not be prejudiced.

Not Questioning the Validity of a Judgment

28. (a) All parties shall accept that the judgment related to the petition submitted for pardon or commutation of sentence is a valid judgment.

(b) The validity of the conviction of the person submitting the petition under this Act, or the validity of the manner in which the conviction was reached, or the validity of the manner in which the judgment was delivered, are not matters that can be reviewed or decided upon in connection with a petition for pardon or commutation of sentence.

Special Procedure for Pardoning

29. (a) The President of the Republic has the discretion, on his own initiative and without a specific petition being submitted, to pardon sentences that meet the following criteria, in relation to any of the categories specified in Article 4 of this Act, for persons sentenced for various criminal offenses before the commencement of the Constitution which came into effect on August 7, 2008:[5]
(1) Persons serving a sentence for an act that was considered a crime before August 7, 2008, but is not considered a crime thereafter.[5]
(2) Persons serving a sentence where the conviction was based on a standard that is stricter or lower than the standard required by the Constitution or law to prove a crime after August 7, 2008.
(3) Persons who were under 18 years of age at the time of the offense before August 7, 2008.
(4) Persons serving a sentence imposed before August 7, 2008, where the conviction was based solely on their confession during the investigation.
(5) Persons serving a sentence for an act that was deemed a crime but was more of a political activity carried out against the state before August 7, 2008.

(b) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act, if a person's sentence or sentences exceed 25 years and they have spent 25 years in prison serving that sentence or sentences, the President of the Republic has the discretion to pardon them on his own initiative, taking into account their behavior, health, time, and circumstances.

(c) The President of the Republic has the discretion to commute the sentence of a person convicted of a criminal offense on his own initiative, based on their age, illness, ongoing treatment, their current situation and circumstances, or on humanitarian grounds.

Making and Enforcing Regulations

30. Regulations required to be made under this Act shall be made and enforced by a party designated by the President of the Republic. And those regulations shall be made and published in the Government Gazette within 6 (six) months from the date this Act comes into force.[6]

Commencement of the Act

31. This Act shall come into force on the day it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

Meaning of Words and Phrases

32. Unless otherwise stated in this Act;

"Board" refers to the Clemency Board established under Article 10 of this Act.

"Petition" refers to a submission made to the President of the Republic under this Act requesting a pardon or commutation of sentence.

"Pardoning a crime" or "granting a pardon" refers to a decision made by the President of the Republic to pardon all or part of a sentence of a person serving a sentence, in a manner that fits into one of the categories specified in Article 3 of this Act, or to commute it, in connection with a petition submitted under this Act.

"Commuting a sentence" includes changing a sentence imposed on a person to a lighter sentence, with or without conditions, reducing the duration of a sentence imposed on a person, and postponing the execution of a sentence imposed on a person.

"Supreme Court" refers to the highest court of appeal in the judicial system of the Maldives, named the Supreme Court.

"On humanitarian grounds" refers to all situations where it is necessary to be compassionate and kind to a human being.

