CLIMATE EMERGENCY ACT
CHAPTER ONE
INTRODUCTION

1. Introduction and Name

(a) This is an Act to establish the necessary legal and administrative framework to formulate and implement policies to protect and safeguard the Maldivian people, all residents of the Maldives, and the Maldives from the danger posed by global climate change; to empower the Maldives to take the lead in advocating for global awareness of the damages caused by climate change; to identify the necessary steps to make the Maldives a carbon-neutral nation; to enhance the resilience and adaptive capacity for the sustainable development of the Maldives; and to stipulate the principles related thereto.

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Climate Emergency Act".

2. Purpose

The purpose of this Act is to achieve the following in relation to climate change:

(a) To stipulate a system for taking necessary measures to adapt the Maldivian people and the Maldives to climate change, to minimize the damages thereof, and to protect human rights from the adverse effects of climate change;

(b) To ensure compliance with the commitments made by the Maldives in the international arena and to establish the necessary reporting system to hold the relevant state institutions accountable in this regard;

(c) To ensure the inclusion of measures to be taken in relation to climate change in the formulation and implementation of national development plans, programs, projects, and standards;

(d) To establish a system for formulating programs and plans necessary to enhance the resilience of the Maldives to climate change and to increase the opportunities for humans and the natural environmental system to adapt to such matters;

(e) To conduct necessary research regarding climate change and to undertake the necessary actions to build and enhance the required technical, human, and financial capacity for it;

(f) To stipulate the responsibilities of the state in taking measures in relation to climate change;

(g) To promote the establishment of an institution trusted by the Maldives and the international community to manage funds received by the Maldives in the fields of environment and climate change;

(h) To facilitate the necessary actions to make the Maldives a carbon-neutral nation by the year 2030;

(i) To grant the relevant authorities the power to formulate and implement the necessary programs to achieve the target of making the Maldives a carbon-neutral nation;

(j) To determine the responsibilities and powers for formulating the principles and standards related to making the Maldives a carbon-neutral nation;

(k) To formulate a system related to carbon budgeting; and

(l) To stipulate the systems for adapting the Maldivian people and the Maldives to climate change and for minimizing the damages thereof.

3. Fundamental Principles

In taking the necessary measures in relation to climate change, the following fundamental principles shall be upheld and maintained:

(a) The government, local councils, civil society organizations, businesses, individuals, and all state institutions shall work in collaboration in implementing and enforcing national policies related to climate change;

(b) The environment and natural resources of the Maldives shall be utilized in a sustainable manner;

(c) The responsibility of taking measures to minimize the damage from climate change and to adapt to the adverse effects thereof shall be a joint responsibility of the state and the public, and the full participation of the public shall be ensured in planning and implementing the plans and projects formulated to fulfill these responsibilities;

(d) The government, local councils, civil society organizations, businesses, individuals, and all state institutions shall prioritize making the Maldives a carbon-neutral economy in the production and consumption of goods;

(e) Arrangements shall be made to collect and disclose information related to climate change in a transparent manner, making it easily accessible to those who need it, and to provide information and raise awareness; and

(f) In adapting to climate change, precautionary measures shall be taken in advance, and the economic capacity of the Maldives shall be enhanced in a manner consistent with the principles of sustainable development.
CHAPTER TWO
CARBON TARGET AND CARBON BUDGETING

4. Carbon Emission Reduction Target

(a) The Maldives shall become a carbon-neutral nation by the year 2030.[1][2][3]

(b) The amount of carbon emitted by the Maldives in the year 2030 shall be equal to or less than the amount of carbon reduced or offset by the Maldives in the same year.

(c) From the year 2030 onwards, the amount of carbon emitted into the atmosphere by the Maldives each year shall be equal to or less than the amount of carbon reduced or offset in that same year.

(d) The principles and formulas for determining the achievement of the targets set under this Act shall be stated in the regulations made under this Act.

(e) The principles and formulas referred to in subsection (d) of this Article shall be internationally accepted principles and formulas.

5. Amending the Target

(a) The target specified in Article 4 of this Act may be amended only if the Minister submits the reasons for the amendment to the People's Majlis and it is passed by the Majlis.

(b) An amendment to the specified target, as per subsection (a) of this Article, may be made only if one of the following circumstances arises:

(1) New scientific findings related to climate change indicate a need to amend the target; or

(2) Changes in international treaties, principles, and policies indicate a need to amend the target.

(c) The scientific findings related to climate change referred to in subsection (b)(1) of this Article shall be findings discovered after the date of commencement of this Act.

6. Matters to be Considered When Amending the Target

(a) Before submitting an amendment to the target specified in Article 4 of this Act to the People's Majlis, the following matters shall be considered:

(1) Consultation with and advice from the Climate Change Directorate established under Article 16 of this Act;

(2) Consultation with other relevant government authorities; and

(3) Consultation with non-governmental organizations working on environmental issues, businesses, public entities, and individuals.

(b) The advice and consultation received under subsections (a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(3) of this Article regarding the amendment of the target shall be published for public access.

(c) If the proposal to amend the target is submitted to the People's Majlis not in accordance with the advice of the Climate Change Directorate under subsection (a)(1) of this Article, the reason for this shall be stated.

7. Carbon Budgeting

(a) To achieve the target specified in Article 4 of this Act, a carbon budget containing the estimated amount of carbon to be emitted for each calendar year shall be formulated by the Minister and passed by the People's Majlis.[2]

(b) Before the end of the calendar year in which this Act comes into force, the Minister shall, within 3 (three) months, formulate and submit to the People's Majlis the first carbon budget for the upcoming year under subsection (a) of this Article. And before the end of each calendar year, the Minister shall formulate and submit to the People's Majlis the estimated carbon budget for the upcoming year within 3 (three) months.

(c) In formulating the carbon budget under subsection (a) of this Article, the Minister shall seek the advice of the Climate Change Directorate, other relevant government authorities, local councils, non-governmental organizations working on environmental issues, businesses, individuals, and relevant state institutions.

(d) The procedures to be followed in formulating the carbon budget and the factors to be considered in determining the carbon emissions for different industries shall be stated in the regulations made under this Act.

(e) No party shall act in contravention of the carbon budget established under this Act. The Climate Change Directorate has the power to take action, as stipulated in the regulations made under this Act, against parties that emit carbon exceeding the amount allocated for a specific sector in the carbon budget.

8. Matters to be Considered in Determining the Carbon Budget

The following matters shall be included among the matters to be considered in determining the carbon budget:

(a) Scientific findings related to climate change;

(b) Technological matters;

(c) Economic matters;

(d) Financial matters such as taxes and loans;

(e) Social matters;

(f) Policies related to energy;

(g) International agreements and treaties; and

(h) Environmental matters.

9. Amending the Carbon Budget

The carbon budget formulated under Article 7(a) of this Act may be amended only if the Minister submits the reasons for the amendment to the People's Majlis and the amendment is passed by the Majlis.

10. Matters to be Considered When Amending the Carbon Budget

When proposing an amendment to the carbon budget under Article 9 of this Act, the following matters shall be considered:

(a) The advice of the Climate Change Directorate established under Article 16 of this Act;

(b) The advice of relevant government authorities; and

(c) All matters specified in Article 8 of this Act.
CHAPTER THREE
ADMINISTRATIVE GOVERNANCE

11. Appointment of a Special Envoy for Climate Change

(a) Within 30 (thirty) days from the date of commencement of this Act, the President of the Republic shall create a post at the ambassadorial level with the title "Special Envoy for Climate Change" and appoint a person to that post.[2]

(b) The Special Envoy for Climate Change appointed under subsection (a) of this Article shall be answerable to the President of the Republic.

(c) The office of the Special Envoy for Climate Change shall be established in the Office of the President of the Republic.

(d) The person appointed to the post of Special Envoy for Climate Change shall be given the salary and benefits of a state ambassador.

12. Removal or Resignation from the Post of Special Envoy for Climate Change

(a) The President of the Republic has the power to remove the person appointed to the post.

(b) Should the Special Envoy for Climate Change wish to resign from their post, they shall submit a letter stating so to the President of the Republic, and upon receipt of the letter by the President of the Republic, they are deemed to have resigned from the post.

13. Responsibilities and Duties of the Special Envoy for Climate Change

The responsibilities and duties of the Special Envoy for Climate Change are stated below:

(a) To represent the Maldives in the international arena on matters related to climate change and to take the lead in communicating the policies of the Maldivian government on climate change;

(b) To advocate and raise a voice at the international and regional levels to minimize the adverse effects of climate change on the Maldives;

(c) To work towards obtaining the necessary financial assistance for the Maldives to achieve the objectives of this Act and in relation to climate change;

(d) To work towards elevating the status of the Maldives in the international community in the area of climate change; and

(e) To work towards seeking the cooperation of nations on issues related to climate change and to work towards strengthening relations with nations in this area.

14. Prioritizing the Interest of the Maldives

In fulfilling the duties of the Special Envoy for Climate Change, the national interest of the Maldives shall be prioritized, defended, and promoted in all circumstances.

15. Qualifications for the Special Envoy for Climate Change

The person appointed to the post of Special Envoy for Climate Change shall possess the following qualifications:

(a) Be a citizen of the Maldives;

(b) Not be a person convicted of a crime such as fraud or bribery within the past 5 (five) years;

(c) Not be a person convicted of a crime for which a hadd is prescribed in Islamic law within the past 5 (five) years;

(d) Be a person with the level of education, experience, and capability to perform the duties and responsibilities of the post of Special Envoy for Climate Change; and

(e) Not be a person holding any other government employment during the term of office.

16. Establishment of the Climate Change Directorate

(a) On the date of commencement of this Act, the Minister shall establish an office at the departmental level under the Ministry by the name of the Climate Change Directorate.[2][3]

(b) The Climate Change Directorate established under subsection (a) of this Article is an office of the Maldives Civil Service. All employees working in this office are employees of the Maldives Civil Service.

(c) The most senior official of the office referred to in subsection (a) of this Article is the Director General. A person shall be appointed to this post by the Civil Service Commission. And this post is a post of the Maldives Civil Service for the purpose of Law No. 5/2007 (Maldives Civil Service Act).

(d) The Director General shall work under the general guidance of the Minister.

(e) The Director General shall be answerable to the Minister on behalf of the Climate Change Directorate.

(f) All ongoing work and resources related to climate change within the Ministry are hereby transferred to the Climate Change Directorate established under subsection (a) of this Article.

(g) The state shall provide the financial and technical resources and assistance necessary for the Climate Change Directorate established under subsection (a) of this Article to carry out its responsibilities.

17. Purpose of the Climate Change Directorate

The main purpose of the Climate Change Directorate is to take the lead in carrying out the necessary actions on behalf of the Maldives in the work done at the national and international levels regarding the climate.

18. Responsibilities of the Climate Change Directorate

The responsibilities of the Climate Change Directorate regarding climate change are stated below:

(a) To formulate and implement programs in accordance with national policies on climate change, and to review and coordinate those policies;

(b) To assist in and monitor the work carried out at the atoll, city, and island levels regarding climate change, and to create the necessary plans to adapt the populations and environments of the islands for this purpose, and to develop the necessary resources for these matters, as well as to provide the necessary technical advice for this work;

(c) To establish the necessary standards and procedures to determine the extent to which relevant parties comply with the law and regulations regarding climate change and to monitor these matters;

(d) To undertake the necessary work to achieve the targets set by the Maldives for implementation under the international treaties and agreements on climate change to which the Maldives is a party;

(e) To report in accordance with the targets set by the Maldives under the international treaties and agreements on climate change to which the Maldives is a party, and to monitor and coordinate the implementation of these matters;

(f) To take the lead in fulfilling the obligations of the state under the international treaties and agreements on climate change to which the Maldives is a party;

(g) To undertake the necessary work to minimize the damages from climate change and to adapt the natural and human environment of the Maldives to achieve the development goals that the Maldives wishes to achieve in the field of sustainable development;

(h) To identify and review the laws, regulations, and policies of other relevant sectors necessary to achieve the objectives of this Act, and to propose necessary amendments to the relevant authorities;

(i) To establish and implement a system for sectors to report to the Climate Change Directorate to determine the extent of use of the carbon budget allocated to different sectors under this Act;

(j) To coordinate matters among the agencies and institutions entrusted with the responsibility of taking measures in relation to climate change;

(k) To provide all necessary advice to the Minister regarding climate change;

(l) To provide the necessary technical assistance to the Special Envoy for Climate Change;

(m) To formulate and implement a national action plan on climate change and to regularly review that plan;

(n) To compile, update, and maintain the greenhouse gas inventory of the Maldives, to disclose that information, and to regularly send that information to the parties to whom it must be sent;

(o) To prepare the reports to be submitted regarding the measures taken to adapt to the effects of climate change and to minimize the damage, and to submit those reports to the parties to whom they must be submitted;

(p) To participate in and coordinate the meetings on climate change held in the international arena;

(q) To formulate and implement the necessary plans to make the environment of the Maldives capable of withstanding climate change, and to coordinate related work;

(r) To acquire the necessary technical capacity to monitor and manage matters related to climate change and to prepare plans for adaptation to these changes;

(s) To conduct research and to seek the necessary technical and financial assistance to formulate and implement programs and projects;

(t) To share information regarding the effects of climate change and to raise public awareness on the matter;

(u) To involve private parties and civil society organizations in matters related to climate change and to expand their role;

(v) If another law or regulation conflicts with any article or part of this Act, to resolve such conflict in order to achieve the purpose of this Act by consulting with the relevant parties and resolving such matters; and

(w) To compile and publish annually statistics including the following matters regarding the damages caused to the Maldives by climate change:

(1) The extent of erosion of various islands of the Maldives and the extent to which the infrastructure on those islands has been affected by island erosion;

(2) The amount of rainfall on various islands of the Maldives;

(3) The extent of tidal flooding on various islands of the Maldives;

(4) The extent to which the problem of coral bleaching has affected the reefs of the Maldives;

(5) Changes in ocean currents and wind patterns affecting the islands of the Maldives over various periods;

(6) The extent to which the tourism industry of the Maldives has been affected;

(7) The extent to which the fishing industry of the Maldives has been affected;

(8) The extent to which the agricultural industry of the Maldives has been affected;

(9) The extent to which the water table of the islands of the Maldives has been affected; and

(10) The extent to which the health of the public has been affected.
CHAPTER FOUR
MINISTER'S RESPONSIBILITIES

19. Minister's Responsibilities

The Minister's responsibilities in relation to climate change include the following:

(a) To determine national policies on climate change;

(b) To ensure that the target specified in Article 4 of this Act is achieved, and if the target needs to be amended, to submit the matter to the People's Majlis;

(c) To submit the carbon budget formulated under Article 7(a) of this Act to the People's Majlis;

(d) To ensure that the amount of carbon emitted by the Maldives during the period does not exceed the carbon budget formulated under Article 7(a) of this Act;

(e) If the carbon budget formulated under Article 7(a) of this Act needs to be amended, to submit the amendment to the People's Majlis for its approval;

(f) To be answerable to the People's Majlis on matters related to climate change;

(g) To provide the necessary assistance and advice in implementing strategic plans, action plans, and programs for the sustainable development of matters related to climate change;

(h) To provide all necessary advice and assistance to the Climate Change Directorate to carry out its responsibilities; and

(i) To establish the necessary advisory committees to implement matters related to climate change.
CHAPTER FIVE
PLAN FORMULATION AND REPORTING

20. National Action Plan on Climate Change

(a) A National Action Plan on Climate Change shall be formulated by the Climate Change Directorate with the advice of the Minister and in consultation with the state and relevant government and private parties.

(b) The plan formulated in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article shall be submitted by the Climate Change Directorate to the Minister. The Minister shall then submit the plan to the President of the Republic and the People's Majlis.

(c) The National Action Plan referred to in subsection (a) of this Article shall include the following:

(1) Policies to be established to enhance the resilience of the Maldives to climate change and to make the Maldives a carbon-neutral nation;

(2) Measures that can be taken to minimize the damages caused by climate change;

(3) Measures to be taken to adapt to and respond to climate change;

(4) Matters that encourage the formulation of development plans that include measures to reduce the risks of disasters that may arise in relation to climate change when formulating and implementing such plans;

(5) Methods for monitoring and measuring the amount of greenhouse gas emissions;

(6) Methods for collecting and obtaining information related to climate change;

(7) Ways to promote renewable energy in the Maldives in a sustainable manner;

(8) Ways to increase energy conservation and measures to be taken to enhance the reliability of renewable energy;

(9) Long-term, medium-term, and short-term targets to be set to achieve the objectives of this Act;

(10) The roles and responsibilities of the government, other institutions, private parties, and individuals in relation to the targets set in the National Action Plan;

(11) The extent of relevance and the changes to be made to strategies related to climate change within the policies being implemented and established by other relevant sectors in the Maldives;

(12) Steps to be taken by the Maldives to act in accordance with the priorities set under the strategy established in relation to climate change;

(13) Sectors for which business schemes need to be formulated to reduce the amount of carbon emitted by the Maldives and to make it a carbon-neutral nation;

(14) Measures to be taken to increase social participation in adapting to climate change and the role of non-governmental organizations;

(15) Measures to be taken in the following sectors to adapt to climate change:

i. Health sector;

ii. Ensuring the security of drinking water and water resources;

iii. Coastal protection and maintenance;

iv. Ensuring food security and agriculture;

v. Fisheries;

vi. Tourism;

vii. Protection of biodiversity;

viii. Conservation of important habitats such as reefs, lagoons, and wetlands;

ix. Maintenance of vulnerable urban infrastructure exposed to climate change;

x. Expansion, strengthening, and maintenance of early warning systems;

xi. Building human and technical capacity and strengthening institutions;

xii. Conducting research and disseminating and publicizing information;

xiii. Facilitating the acquisition of financial resources to implement projects and programs;

xiv. Expanding the technology required to mitigate and adapt to climate change;

xv. Increasing public awareness and bringing about changes in lifestyles; and

xvi. Promoting business, investment, and the economic sector in a sustainable manner.

(d) In formulating the plan referred to in subsection (a) of this Article, the following matters shall be considered:

(1) The current situation of the Maldives in relation to climate change;

(2) The structure of the administrative system in the field of climate change and the challenges in its administration;

(3) The types of greenhouse gases emitted by the Maldives, the amount of greenhouse gas emissions, and the sectors from which they are emitted;

(4) The work being done to mitigate climate change, to switch to renewable energy for electricity generation, and in the transport sector, waste management, energy efficiency, and to ensure energy security;

(5) The extent of availability of human, technical, and financial resources, the challenges in obtaining them, and the opportunities for developing such resources.

(e) The National Action Plan to be formulated by the Climate Change Directorate under this Article shall be formulated and published within 6 (six) months from the date of commencement of this Act.

(f) The government, local councils, civil society organizations, businesses, individuals, and all state institutions shall cooperate to achieve the targets set in the National Action Plan on Climate Change.

(g) The Climate Change Directorate has the power to take action, as stipulated in the regulations made under this Act, against parties acting in contravention of the principle laid down in subsection (f) of this Article.

21. Reporting

(a) A report stating the extent of implementation of this Act shall be prepared once every year by the Climate Change Directorate and submitted to the Minister.

(b) The report referred to in subsection (a) of this Article shall include the following:

(1) The extent to which the targets set to make the Maldives a carbon-neutral nation are being achieved;

(2) The extent of implementation of the National Action Plan;

(3) The extent to which other targets set by the Maldives in relation to climate change are being achieved;

(4) The extent to which the matters in the carbon budget have been achieved and the progress made;

(5) Matters or sectors where further progress is needed in relation to the carbon budget;

(6) A review of the measures being taken to minimize the damages caused by climate change and a statement on whether these measures are adequate, and if the policies need to be reviewed, to highlight that;

(7) A statement on whether the roles and responsibilities of the government, other institutions, and private parties specified in the climate change-related plans need to be reviewed; and

(8) The difficulties and challenges faced in implementing the National Action Plan and the proposed measures to overcome those difficulties.

(c) Within 30 (thirty) days of receiving the report submitted by the Climate Change Directorate under subsection (a) of this Article, the Minister shall submit it to the President of the Republic and the People's Majlis. A statement expressing the Minister's views on the report shall be submitted along with the report. The report shall also be published for public access.

22. Reporting by Other Authorities

To assess the extent of implementation of this Act and the achievement of the set targets, government authorities and other institutions shall maintain and submit to the Climate Change Directorate the required statistics and other information as specified in the regulations made under this Act.
CHAPTER SIX
FUNDS RECEIVED FOR AREAS RELATED TO ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE

23. Management of Funds Received for Areas Related to Environment and Climate Change

(a) To strengthen the management of money received from within the Maldives and from abroad to mitigate climate change, to adapt to such changes, to achieve the carbon-neutral target, and to protect and sustain the environment of the Maldives, an independent institution that has the trust of the Maldives and the international community shall be established by the President of the Republic under a special law formulated for that purpose within 18 (eighteen) months from the date of commencement of this Act.

(b) The law enacted to establish the institution referred to in subsection (a) of this Article shall state the purpose of the institution, its composition, its functions, and the procedures to be followed in managing and spending the funds.
CHAPTER SEVEN
OTHER MATTERS

24. Gas Emitted from International Aviation and Maritime Transport

Except in circumstances specified in the regulations made in this regard, carbon emitted from international aviation and maritime transport shall not be considered as carbon emitted from the sources of the Maldives.

25. Making and Enforcing Regulations

(a) Unless otherwise expressly stated in this Act, the regulations to be made under this Act shall be made and enforced by the Climate Change Directorate.

(b) Within 9 (nine) months from the date of commencement of this Act, the regulations necessary for the implementation of this Act shall be made and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

26. Commencement of the Act

This Act shall come into force on the date of its passing, ratification, and publication in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

27. Definitions

Unless the context in which a phrase or word is used in this Act expressly requires otherwise, the following phrases and words shall have the meanings given below:

(a) "Adaptation" means the natural changes in the natural or human system to the actual or expected effects of climate change or its impacts, by which damage is reduced or beneficial opportunities are exploited.

(b) "Ministry" means the government ministry designated to implement policies related to climate.

(c) "Minister" means the minister of the government ministry designated to implement policies related to climate.

(d) "Climate change" means the changes in the Earth's climate system over a period of time due to the direct and indirect release of toxic gases into the atmosphere by humans, and the resulting changes to the climate, as well as natural climatic changes.

(e) "Scientific finding" means a finding related to climate change published by a reliable source accepted by the international community.

(f) "Carbon budget" means the amount of carbon determined to be emitted by the Maldives within a year.

(g) "Carbon neutral" means that the amount of carbon released into the atmosphere over a specific period is equivalent to the amount of carbon removed from the atmosphere during the same period.

(h) "Greenhouse gas" means gases that contribute to the greenhouse effect, including but not limited to carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons, and sulfur hexafluoride, which are present in the atmosphere.

