CONSTRUCTION ACT

CHAPTER ONE

INTRODUCTION

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This is the law to develop the construction industry of the Maldives, and to establish the legal framework required to advance and manage the industry in accordance with established principles and standards.
(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Construction Act".

Purpose

    The main purposes desired to be achieved by this Act are stated below.
    (a) To facilitate the creation of buildings that are safe, promote good health, and will not cause harm to their users, making them secure places.
    (b) To make construction work a safe, innovative, and environmentally friendly activity that paves the way for development and creativity.
    (c) To develop capable and skilled professionals in the construction industry.
    (d) To improve the quality of construction work and to facilitate the improvement of the quality of materials used in construction.
    (e) To establish a board named the "Maldives Building and Construction Board" to advise the Minister on matters related to the construction industry.
    (f) To develop and advance the construction industry.

Policy Formulation

    The Minister shall be responsible for formulating policies for the construction industry in the Maldives in the spirit of this Act and in a manner that achieves the purposes of this Act.

Enforcement of the Law

    The Minister shall be primarily responsible for the enforcement and administration of this Act and for carrying out the matters prescribed in this Act.

CHAPTER TWO

MALDIVES BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION BOARD

Establishment of the Maldives Building and Construction Board

5.
(a) To advise the Minister in implementing the policies formulated by the Minister under Article 3 of this Act, a board shall be established in the Ministry by the name of "Maldives Building and Construction Board" within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act.
(b) The Board established under subsection (a) of this Article shall function under the Ministry.

Board Members

6.
(a) The Board shall consist of 7 (seven) members appointed from the following fields, who have technical education and/or experience in the construction-related industry.
(1) 2 (two) members appointed by the Minister;
(2) 2 (two) members representing two different fields from among the technical consultants in the construction industry;
(3) 1 (one) member representing the contractors in the construction industry;
(4) 1 (one) member appointed from the legal field;
(5) 1 (one) member appointed by the Local Government Authority.
(b) Members appointed to the Board must possess the following qualifications.
(1) Be a Maldivian citizen with the educational background, competence, and work ethic to fulfill the responsibilities and duties of a Board member;
(2) Not have been convicted of an offense for which a sentence is prescribed in Islamic Shari’ah or a bribery offense within the past 5 (five) years.
(c) Members of the Board shall be appointed and removed by the President of the Republic.
(d) The remuneration of the Board members shall be determined by the President of the Republic upon the advice of the Minister of Finance and Treasury.

Term of Board Members

    The term of a member appointed to the Board shall be 1 (one) term of 2 (two) years. Each member so appointed may be reappointed to the Board for a further term of 1 (one) year after the expiry of his/her term.

Responsibilities of the Board

    The responsibilities of the Board are stated below.
    (a) To provide necessary advice to the Minister on expanding, developing, and advancing the construction industry;
    (b) To advise the relevant authorities on matters affecting or related to the construction industry, and on the measures to be taken for the safety and security of buildings;
    (c) To advise on ways to develop the materials, products, and methods of work used in the construction industry in order to increase creativity and improve the quality of the industry;
    (d) To promote the principles and methods of procurement and contracting in the construction industry and to advise the relevant authorities on these matters;
    (e) To advise the relevant government authorities on matters related to the construction industry;
    (f) To advise on how to develop human resources in the construction industry;
    (g) To advise on how to enhance the capacity and skills of companies operating in the construction industry;
    (h) To advise on ways to encourage the use of international standards for quality assessment in the construction industry;
    (i) To advise the relevant authorities on the required quantity of essential materials for the construction industry and their availability;
    (j) To conduct necessary research and advise on the development and advancement of the construction industry, including energy consumption in buildings, building maintenance and management, the building code, construction regulations, and building control systems;
    (k) To advise on encouraging the reduction of energy consumption in the development and use of buildings;
    (l) To advise on the establishment and maintenance of an archive of records and drawings of construction works;
    (m) To advise on the registration of professionals working in the construction industry and the maintenance of registers of such professionals;
    (n) To assist in exporting construction works and services, and to advise on how this can be promoted;
    (o) To share technical advice and information with construction-related institutions of other countries to advance the construction industry;
    (p) To advise on the formulation and enforcement of regulations necessary for the development and sustainable management of the construction industry;
    (q) To encourage an increase in the proportion of Maldivians working in the construction industry, and to advise the Ministry in fulfilling its responsibility to facilitate necessary actions through other relevant agencies;
    (r) To advise on the review of cases submitted to the Ministry under this Act concerning the construction industry.

Chairman of the Board

    The Chairman of the Board shall be a person appointed by the President of the Republic from among the members of the Board.

Duties and Responsibilities of the Chairman

    The responsibilities of the Chairman of the Board are to organize and conduct the work of the Board and to preside over the meetings of the Board in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

Resignation

11.
(a) If a member of the Board wishes to resign from his/her post, he/she may do so by a letter addressed to the President of the Republic. The member shall be deemed to have resigned from the post upon receipt of the letter of resignation by the President of the Republic.
(b) If the Chairman of the Board wishes to resign, he/she shall act in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article. However, even if the Chairman of the Board resigns from his/her post, he/she shall not be deemed to have resigned from the membership of the Board unless he/she resigns from the membership of the Board.

Non-participation in matters of conflict of interest

12.
(a) In reviewing a matter submitted by the Minister for the Board's advice in relation to a case submitted to the Ministry under this Act, if the matter involves a personal interest, benefit, or role of any member of the Board, that member shall not participate in the review or decision-making of that matter to any extent. And if it is not known beforehand that a matter being reviewed by the Board involves an interest, benefit, or role of a Board member, upon becoming aware of it, the member shall inform the Chairman of the Board and recuse himself/herself from reviewing and/or making decisions related to that matter.
(b) If a situation as described in subsection (a) of this Article arises for the Chairman of the Board, he/she shall hand over the presidency of such a meeting to another member of the Board and recuse himself/herself from reviewing the matter.
(c) No member of the Board, in the performance of his/her duties under this Act, shall seek or accept instructions from any person engaged in the construction industry or from any person in the financial, industrial, or commercial sector or any other person.
(d) Notwithstanding subsection (c) of this Article, this Article shall not prevent the Board from consulting and obtaining advice from experts and consultants appointed to advise the Board.
(e) No member of the Board, in the performance of his/her duties under this Act, shall accept any gift or benefit of any kind, in his/her own name, or in the name of a member of his/her family, or in the name of a person with whom he/she has a business or financial relationship, or in the name of a child of such a person, in a manner that may lead to bias towards a particular party.

Confidentiality

    Information obtained by members in their capacity as members of the Board is confidential information. Such information shall not be disclosed to any person except as required to be disclosed to a person authorized by law.

Board Meetings

14.
(a) A meeting of the Board shall be held at least once every month.
(b) A meeting of the Board shall be held with the attendance of at least 4 (four) members.
(c) A matter shall be deemed to have been decided by the Board if it is passed by a majority of the total members of the Board.
(d) The meetings of the Board shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board. In the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the meetings of the Board shall be presided over by a member elected to preside over the meeting from among the members of the Board present at the meeting.
(e) If not less than 3 (three) members of the Board wish to hold a meeting of the Board, they may give notice to the Chairman of the Board stating the reason. And a meeting of the Board shall be held as proposed in the notice within 5 (five) days of the receipt of the notice by the Chairman of the Board.
(f) An agenda and minutes of every meeting of the Board shall be written and maintained.
(g) All administrative matters of the Board and the secretariat of the Board shall be managed by the Ministry.

CHAPTER THREE

ADMINISTRATION OF THE LAW

Powers of the Ministry and the Minister

15.
(a) The Ministry shall have the following powers to do what is necessary to carry out its responsibilities in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.
(1) To make and enforce regulations for the safety and security of the construction industry and to regulate other matters of the industry;
(2) To set standards for design, methods of work, products, and materials used in construction;
(3) To determine the training needs of the construction industry, to provide training, to facilitate training opportunities, to arrange for quality assessment, and to issue certificates of proficiency;
(4) To classify and register contractors and skilled workers in the construction industry to improve the quality of construction work in the Maldives;
(5) To charge fees for services provided by the Ministry;
(6) To conduct necessary activities to raise public awareness on matters related to the construction industry;
(7) To review various cases submitted under this Act and the regulations made hereunder concerning the construction industry, to seek the advice of the Board in cases where such advice is required, and to take necessary measures;
(8) To do what is necessary to achieve the purposes set out in Article 2 of this Act, and to do any other thing necessary for the enforcement of this Act.
(b) The Minister shall have, within the scope of this Act, all powers directly necessary for the enforcement of this Act or for the performance of any matter determined by this Act to be a responsibility of the Minister, and all powers that facilitate the full performance of that responsibility, whether or not a specific power is expressly conferred on the Minister by this Act.

Responsibility of the Minister

16.
(a) It is the responsibility of the Minister to formulate the regulations, procedures, and systems necessary for the enforcement of this Act, to issue necessary directives, and to take necessary measures.
(b) The Minister shall be answerable to the President of the Republic and the People's Majlis in carrying out the responsibilities specified in this Act.

CHAPTER FOUR

CONSTRUCTION PERMIT

Permit for Construction and Use of Building

    Permits for construction and use of buildings shall be issued in accordance with this Act, the Construction Regulation made hereunder, and the Construction Administrative Regulation.

No work to be carried out without a construction permit

18.
(a) Except in the circumstances specified in Article 30 of this Act, it is prohibited for any person to carry out any construction work without obtaining a permit in accordance with the Construction Administrative Regulation.
(b) If any person acts in contravention of subsection (a) of this Article, the Ministry or a person designated by the Ministry shall have the authority to fine that person an amount between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand), depending on the severity of the offense, and to order the immediate cessation of the work being carried out by that person, and to take necessary action in relation to the matter. If the work is continued despite the Ministry's order, 3% (three percent) of the fine amount shall be added to the fine for each day the work is not stopped.
(c) If the Ministry becomes aware that any person has carried out work in contravention of subsection (a) of this Article, the Ministry shall instruct the owner of the building to act in accordance with Articles 34 and 35 of this Act. And that person shall act as instructed by the Ministry.

Fee payable in relation to the construction permit

    The Ministry has the authority to charge a fee from the person applying for a construction permit as specified in the Construction Administrative Regulation made under this Act.

Application for a construction permit

20.
(a) An application for a construction permit shall be submitted by the owner of the building. And such an application for a construction permit shall be submitted to the authority specified in the Construction Regulation in the manner prescribed in that regulation.
(b) When applying for a construction permit under this Article, in addition to the documents specified in this Act, the documents specified in the Construction Administrative Regulation shall be submitted.
(c) If any person applies for a construction permit, the permit-issuing authority shall make a decision on the issuance of the construction permit within the period specified in the Construction Regulation and shall inform the applicant of the decision.

Obtaining a permit for works considered as civil works

    All works that may be considered as civil works included in the meaning of the term "construction" in Article 99 of this Act shall be carried out after obtaining a permit from the authority designated for that purpose in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

Obtaining a permit required under another law

    When applying for a permit to carry out construction work under this Act, in addition to fulfilling the requirements specified in this Act and the regulations made hereunder, the following shall also be fulfilled.
    (a) If such work requires a permit under a planning law, the planning permit issued for that purpose shall be submitted;
    (b) If such work requires a permit under another law, such a permit shall be obtained in accordance with that law.

Approval of building drawings

23.
(a) An application for the approval of building drawings shall be submitted to the authority specified in the Construction Regulation in the manner prescribed in that regulation.
(b) When applying for the approval of building drawings, the building drawings and details designed by a person licensed under the Regulation on Professionals Working in the Construction Industry shall be submitted.
(c) Upon application for the approval of building drawings in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article, the building drawings shall be approved in accordance with the Construction Administrative Regulation, and a document of approval shall be issued.

Issuance of construction permit

24.
(a) Upon application for a construction permit in accordance with Article 20 of this Act, a construction permit shall be issued to that person in accordance with the Construction Administrative Regulation.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, no construction permit issuing authority shall issue a construction permit to any person unless the following conditions are met.
(1) The fee specified in the Construction Administrative Regulation has been paid;
(2) Any fine payable under this Act has been paid; and
(3) The permits specified in subsections (a) and (b) of Article 22 of this Act have been submitted.

Responsibility for technical work of construction

    If there is any issue in the drawings and details submitted when applying for a construction permit for a building, the responsibility for ensuring that the drawings and details are in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder shall be borne by the persons who designed and checked the building in accordance with the Regulation on Professionals Working in the Construction Industry.

Invalidation of construction permit

26.
(a) If, after the issuance of a construction permit under Article 24 of this Act in relation to a specific building, the actual construction work of that building has not commenced within the period prescribed for the commencement of the work in accordance with the Construction Administrative Regulation, that permit shall become invalid.
(b) With regard to permits issued before the commencement of this Act without a specified period for the commencement of work, if action has not been taken within the period specified in the regulations made under this Act for acting on such permits, the permits issued for those places shall become invalid upon the expiry of that period.

Amendment of construction permit

27.
(a) If, after the issuance of a construction permit under Article 24 of this Act, it is desired to make an amendment to the drawing for which the permit was issued, a new permit shall be obtained by submitting the drawing and details indicating the amendment to the authority that issued the construction permit, in accordance with the regulations made under this Act. And upon application for such an amendment, the construction permit issuing authority shall issue the permit in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
(b) Upon the approval of the drawings submitted in relation to a desired amendment to a building, the first permit issued under Article 24 of this Act shall become invalid. The new permit issued under this Article shall then be effective.

Circumstances requiring a permit for structural works

    If, when issuing a construction permit under Article 24 of this Act, it is stated in the Construction Regulation that a permit must be sought for any structural work of that building, the owner of the building shall apply for a permit for that purpose. And if such a permit is applied for, the permit issuance process shall be carried out in the manner prescribed in the regulation.

Circumstances requiring a new permit upon interruption of structural work

29.
(a) If, after the commencement of a structural work among the works for which a construction permit has been issued, the work is interrupted for a period longer than 6 (six) months without completion, further work shall be carried out only after obtaining a new construction permit from the authority that issued the construction permit.
(b) A permit to resume interrupted work as described in subsection (a) of this Article may be granted after reviewing a report submitted by a person licensed under the Regulation on Professionals Working in the Construction Industry after assessing the condition of the site, and the proposed method for continuing the work.

Circumstances in which construction may be carried out without a construction permit

    The following works may be carried out without obtaining the permit specified in Article 18 of this Act. However, such a building shall be used only after obtaining a permit in accordance with Article 32 of this Act.
    (a) Construction works for which obtaining a permit is exempted in the Construction Regulation; or
    (b) Works for which there is no time to obtain a permit in advance due to an emergency. Such situations are:
    (1) To protect a person's life or health; or
    (2) To save a person's property from a situation that could cause great damage; or
    (3) Situations where emergency construction is required to compensate for damage caused by a natural disaster.

No permit to be issued for construction on land that may pose a danger

31.
(a) In the following circumstances, the construction permit issuing authority shall not issue a construction permit or a permit to alter a building.
(1) The land or place for which a construction permit is sought or the land or place where the building is located is a land or place where a natural danger may arise in one or more ways;
(2) There is a high probability of danger to a person, or to that building, or to another building adjacent to that building, or to a land or place, or of worsening an existing danger in connection with that work.
(b) In order to identify such places as described in this Article, information on such places shall be published by the Ministry and the permit-issuing authorities.

Issuance of building occupancy permit

32.
(a) A building occupancy permit shall be issued by a person designated by the Ministry, in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder, stating that the building has been constructed in accordance with the drawings for which the construction permit was issued.
(b) An application for a building occupancy permit as described in subsection (a) of this Article may be submitted in one of the following ways.
(1) Upon completion of a part or a unit of a building, the owner of that building may apply for a permit for that part only;
(2) Upon completion of the entire building, the owner of that building may apply for a permit.
(c) A temporary occupancy permit may be issued by a construction permit-issuing authority in accordance with the Construction Regulation for the temporary use of a building. And a building under such a temporary permit shall be used in the manner specified in the permit and for the period specified in the permit.
(d) The procedure for issuing a building occupancy permit in the circumstances specified in Article 30 of this Act shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Commencement of use of a building

33.
(a) Unless otherwise specified in this Act, a building or a part of a building shall not be used before a written building occupancy permit is issued by the relevant authority.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, that subsection shall not prevent the following.
(1) To accommodate a person in the building for the maintenance of the building;
(2) To use the building or a part of the building for the period for which a temporary occupancy permit issued under subsection (c) of Article 32 of this Act has been issued.
(c) If it is desired to use a building for a purpose other than the purpose for which the construction permit was issued, a permit must be obtained from the authority that issued the construction permit. It is prohibited to use a building without obtaining such a permit.
(d) If any person contravenes subsection (c) of this Article, action shall be taken against that person in accordance with Article 90 of this Act.

Carrying out work without obtaining a construction permit

34.
(a) If a permit-issuing authority notices that work is being carried out or has been carried out without a construction permit in accordance with Article 18 of this Act, the work shall be stopped and the use of that building shall be prohibited.
(b) If work is stopped or the use of a building is prohibited in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article, a permit to continue the work or to use the building shall be obtained again in accordance with the Construction Administrative Regulation.
(c) A permit under subsection (b) of this Article shall be issued after verifying whether the drawings and details submitted with the application for the permit are in accordance with the regulations made under this Act and the building code made under this Act.
(d) If the work carried out without a permit as described in subsection (a) of this Article is not in accordance with the regulations made under this Act and the building code, an order shall be issued to modify the work or the place to comply with those regulations and the building code. And the owner of the building shall be responsible for the cost incurred for such modifications.
(b) It is prohibited to continue work or use the place without obtaining the permit when ordered to obtain a permit as in subsection (a) of this Article.
(f) A person who contravenes subsection (b) of this Article shall be fined an amount between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand) by the Ministry or a person designated by the Ministry, depending on the severity of the offense. And if the work is continued repeatedly, 3% (three percent) of the fine amount shall be added for each day of repetition.

Issuance of a letter of acceptance of work

35.
(a) If an application is made to obtain a permit for buildings constructed before the commencement of this Act and buildings constructed without a permit, a construction permit-issuing authority may issue a letter of acceptance of work for that building in the following circumstances.
(1) The work was carried out before the commencement of this Act; or
(2) The work was carried out without obtaining the construction permit specified in Article 18 of this Act; or
(3) The work was carried out under Article 30 of this Act.
(b) When applying for a letter of acceptance of work under this Article, a report prepared by a person licensed under the Regulation on Skilled Workers in the Construction Industry after assessing the condition of the place shall be submitted.
(c) In the case specified in paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of this Article, a construction permit-issuing authority shall issue a letter of acceptance of work after reviewing the report submitted under subsection (b) of this Article.
(d) In the cases specified in paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (a) of this Article, a construction permit-issuing authority shall issue a letter of acceptance of work in accordance with the Construction Administrative Regulation.
(e) The existence of this Article does not exempt a person from obtaining the permit required for construction under Article 24 of this Act.

Alteration of a building or a place

36.
(a) It is prohibited for the owner of a building or a place or the user of that place to remove, alter, close, or do any other thing that obstructs that place or a part of that place in contravention of the permit issued for that place.
(b) If any person becomes aware that an alteration as described in subsection (a) of this Article has been made, he/she shall inform the construction permit-issuing authority.
(c) If the construction permit-issuing authority becomes aware that an alteration as described in subsection (a) of this Article has been made, the construction permit-issuing authority shall, in writing, instruct the owner of the building to carry out the necessary works to restore the use of such a place to its full extent or to make any necessary alterations.
(d) A person who contravenes subsection (a) of this Article shall be fined an amount between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand) by the Ministry or a person designated by the Ministry, depending on the severity of the offense. And if the act is repeated, 3% (three percent) of the fine amount shall be added for each day of repetition.

Action to be taken on works carried out in contravention of the law

37.
(a) If a construction permit-issuing authority finds that any construction work has been carried out in contravention of this Act or a regulation made hereunder, that authority shall, after submitting the matter to the Ministry, take action against the person who contravened the regulation in accordance with the advice of the Ministry and in accordance with the Construction Administrative Regulation.
(b) If the person who contravened the regulation fails to comply with an order issued by the construction permit-issuing authority under subsection (a) of this Article, action shall be taken against that person in accordance with the Construction Administrative Regulation.
(c) If a person to whom an order is issued under subsection (a) of this Article fails to comply with that order, the construction permit-issuing authority shall have the power to demolish, remove, or alter that place as directed by the Ministry in order to rectify the matter done in contravention of the law.
(d) The owner of the building shall be responsible for the costs incurred in connection with the alterations made in accordance with subsection (c) of this Article.
(e) A person who contravenes subsection (a) of this Article shall be fined an amount between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand) by the Ministry, depending on the severity of the offense. And if the act is not stopped and is repeated, 3% (three percent) of the fine amount shall be added for each day of repetition.

Action to be taken in case of refusal to grant a permit

38.
(a) If a permit-issuing authority refuses to grant any permit required to be obtained under this Act, or withholds the permit, a complaint may be submitted to the Ministry.
(b) Upon receipt of a complaint in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article, the Ministry shall review the matter in accordance with the Construction Administrative Regulation, take necessary action in relation to the matter, and find a solution to the matter.

CHAPTER FIVE

BUILDING CODE

Purpose of the Building Code

    A building code shall be formulated under this Act to achieve the following purposes.
    (a) To facilitate making buildings safe places and to make them safe places where no harm will befall their users;
    (b) To make buildings a spacious environment that promotes a healthy life for the users of those buildings;
    (c) To provide safety to the users of the building in the event of an accident, and to facilitate a way to exit the building safely in such situations;
    (d) To facilitate the design, construction, and use of buildings in a manner that paves the way for sustainable development.

Construction in accordance with the Building Code

    The drawings and details submitted for a construction permit under this Act, the construction works carried out under this Act, and the buildings shall be in accordance with the Building Code.

Components of the Building Code

    The Building Code shall include the following components.
    (a) Functional requirements of a building; and
    (b) Performance criteria for the functional requirements of a building; and
    (c) A compliance document that ensures the achievement of the matters specified in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article with certainty; or
    (d) If a method other than the one specified in subsection (c) of this Article is proposed, a verification method to determine that the purpose of the Building Code will be achieved.

Gazetting of the Building Code

42.
(a) After the Ministry has formulated the Building Code in accordance with Article 41 of this Act, the Code shall be published in the Government Gazette. And if any amendment is made to any part of the Building Code, that amendment shall also be published in the Government Gazette.
(b) As the documents referred to in subsections (a) and (b) of Article 41 of this Act, which are part of the Building Code, are technical documents, this Article shall not prevent the publication of those documents in the English language.

CHAPTER SIX

QUALITY CONTROL OF CONSTRUCTION WORK

Quality Control of Construction Work

43.
(a) In every case not exempted by this Act or a regulation made hereunder, the owner of the building shall appoint a person in accordance with the Construction Administrative Regulation to verify that every construction work is being carried out as permitted.
(b) It is prohibited to contravene subsection (a) of this Article. And the Ministry or the construction permit-issuing authority shall take action against such a person under the Construction Administrative Regulation.
(c) A person appointed under subsection (a) of this Article shall not be a person who has any interest in the person carrying out the work or the owner of the building.

Tests conducted in relation to construction work

44.
(a) A person carrying out construction work shall carry out the tests specified in the Regulation on Testing of Materials Used in Construction in the manner prescribed in that regulation.
(b) In a situation where an exemption is required from conducting a test specified in subsection (a) of this Article, upon submission of the matter to the Ministry, the Ministry may grant the exemption in cases where the Regulation on Testing of Materials Used in Construction provides for such an exemption.

Responsibility of the person carrying out the construction

45.
(a) If the person carrying out the construction becomes aware that an act in contravention of this Act or the Construction Regulation is taking place or has taken place, that person shall inform the construction permit-issuing authority.
(b) The construction permit-issuing authority shall inform the Ministry of the notices given under subsection (a) of this Article for the information of the Ministry.
(c) It is prohibited to fail to give notice of a matter for which notice is required under subsection (a) of this Article.
(d) A person who contravenes subsection (c) of this Article shall be fined an amount between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand) by the Ministry, depending on the severity of the offense.

Appointment of persons to control the quality of construction work

46.
(a) The circumstances in which persons shall be appointed to control the quality of construction work under subsection (a) of Article 43 of this Act, the works for which they shall control the quality, and the duties they shall perform shall be specified in the Regulation on Professionals Working in the Construction Industry.
(b) It is prohibited for persons appointed to control the quality of construction work under subsection (a) of Article 43 of this Act to work in contravention of this Act and the Regulation on Professionals Working in the Construction Industry.
(c) If any person appointed to control the quality of construction work commits an act specified in subsection (a) of this Article, action shall be taken against that person in accordance with the Regulation on Professionals Working in the Construction Industry.

Responsibility of the builder to work in accordance with the permit

47.
(a) Persons carrying out construction work in the Maldives shall carry out the work in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.
(b) It is prohibited for any person to contravene subsection (a) of this Article.
(c) If any person contravenes subsection (a) of this Article, action shall be taken against that person under Article 90 of this Act.
(d) In cases where the Construction Administrative Regulation permits construction without engaging a person registered with the Ministry, compliance with subsection (a) of this Article shall be exempted.
(e) Construction work shall be carried out in accordance with the drawings approved by a construction permit-issuing authority.
(f) In cases where this Act or the Construction Administrative Regulation states that a construction permit is not required, compliance with subsection (e) of this Article shall be exempted.
(g) If the builder becomes aware that an act in contravention of this Act or a regulation made hereunder is taking place or has taken place at a site where construction work is being carried out, or if such an act is generally known to be taking place at that site, the builder shall inform the construction permit-issuing authority.
(h) The construction permit-issuing authority shall inform the Ministry of the notices given under subsection (g) of this Article.
(i) It is prohibited to fail to report a matter that must be reported under subsection (g) of this Article.
(j) While carrying out certain specific works specified in the Construction Administrative Regulation, the builder shall arrange for a person authorized for that purpose to be present at the work site during the work to ensure that the work is being carried out in accordance with the permit issued for that work.

Unsanitary Building

48.
(a) If any person notices that any building or part of a building is an unsanitary place, the person who notices it shall inform the construction permit-issuing authority or the Ministry.
(b) If a construction permit-issuing authority receives information about a place that is considered to be an unsanitary building, it shall inform the Ministry. After reviewing the information submitted in this manner, the matter shall be brought to the notice of the relevant authority in accordance with the Public Health Protection Act to determine whether the building is an unsanitary building. A particular building shall be declared an unsanitary building by the relevant authority.
(c) If a particular building is declared an unsanitary building by the relevant authority under subsection (b) of this Article, the owner of the building shall act as follows, and the building shall not be used until the condition of the building is improved.
(1) Inspect and analyze the building or its system as specified in the Construction Administrative Regulation and prepare a report; and
(2) Rectify the matter at the expense of the owner of the building as specified in the Construction Administrative Regulation; and
(3) Act in accordance with the instructions of the relevant authority under the Public Health Protection Act.

Dangerous Building

49.
(a) In a situation where a building is found to be a dangerous building or a building that is likely to become a dangerous building due to its age and deterioration, or due to the weight imposed on a building, or due to the poor quality of work done in a building, or due to an accident, or for any other reason, the person who observes it shall inform a construction permit-issuing authority or the Ministry.
(b) Upon receipt of information about such a place as described in subsection (a) of this Article by a permit-issuing authority under subsection (a) of this Article, the matter shall be brought to the notice of the Ministry. After reviewing the information received in this manner in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder, the Ministry may declare the building a dangerous building.
(c) If a particular building is declared a dangerous building by the Ministry under subsection (b) of this Article, the building shall be used only after a new building use permit is issued by the permit-issuing authority.
(d) If a particular building is declared a dangerous building by the Ministry under subsection (b) of this Article, the owner of the building shall act as follows.
(1) Inspect and analyze the building or a part of the building as specified in the Construction Administrative Regulation and prepare a report; and
(2) Rectify the matter at the expense of the owner as specified in the Construction Administrative Regulation.
(e) If, after reviewing the report referred to in paragraph (1) of subsection (d) of this Article, the Ministry deems it necessary to rectify the matter, or to demolish the building, or to take any other action with regard to the building, the Ministry shall, within a period specified in the Construction Administrative Regulation, inform the owner of the building of the action to be taken with regard to the building, stating the reasons.
(f) Upon the owner of the building acting in accordance with the order issued under subsection (e) of this Article, a building use permit shall be issued to that person.
(g) If the person fails to complete the matters specified in the order issued under subsection (e) of this Article within the period given for that purpose, the Ministry shall have the authority to rectify the matter. In that case, the cost incurred for that purpose shall be paid to the Ministry by the owner of the building in accordance with the Construction Administrative Regulation.
(h) The owner of the building shall be liable for any danger or damage to a place or person caused by using the building in a manner other than that for which the building use permit was issued.
(i) If any person contravenes subsection (h) of this Article, action shall be taken against that person in accordance with Article 90 of this Act.

Danger arising from a construction work

50.
(a) It is prohibited to carry out any work during construction, alteration, or repair of a building in a manner that would cause harm to a person, a place, property, another building, or the surrounding environment.
(b) Any person who contravenes subsection (a) of this Article shall be fined an amount between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand) by the Ministry or a person designated by the Ministry, depending on the severity of the offense. And if the work method is not rectified and the act is repeated, 3% (three percent) of the fine amount shall be added for each day of repetition.
(c) If a construction permit-issuing authority receives information that a construction work is being carried out in contravention of subsection (a) of this Article, it shall act as follows.
(1) If a danger has arisen or is likely to arise from the work, order the immediate cessation of the construction work; and
(2) Order the person carrying out the work and the owner of the building to submit a report containing the causes of such a danger and the ways to be safe from that danger; and
(3) If, after reviewing the report referred to in paragraph (2) of this subsection, it is deemed appropriate to continue the work, or if it is deemed appropriate to continue the work after rectifying it, issue a permit to continue in that manner; and
(4) If, after reviewing the report referred to in paragraph (2) of this subsection, it is not deemed appropriate to continue the work, inform the owner of the building of the action to be taken with regard to the building, stating the reasons, within a period specified in the Construction Administrative Regulation.
(d) If the person fails to complete the matters specified in the order issued under subsection (c) of this Article within the period given for that purpose, the Ministry or a person designated by the Ministry shall have the authority to rectify the matter. However, the cost incurred for that purpose shall be paid to the Ministry by the owner of the building in accordance with the Construction Administrative Regulation.

Inspection and checking of ongoing or completed construction works

51.
(a) Whenever the Ministry or a construction permit-issuing authority wishes to inspect the quality of a building under construction or a completed building, the owner of that place shall, after being notified in writing, grant permission to the Ministry or the construction permit-issuing authority to enter that place for inspection and checking in accordance with the Construction Administrative Regulation.
(b) Whenever the Ministry or a construction permit-issuing authority requests to enter a place where construction work is in progress in connection with construction works under subsection (a) of this Article, the relevant documents, books, or records maintained at that place shall be shown to that authority in accordance with the Construction Administrative Regulation.
(c) In order to act in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article, the Ministry or a construction permit-issuing authority may make an opening large enough to enter the place. And a sample of a material used for construction may be taken by the Ministry or a person designated by the Ministry, without payment, in the amount required to analyze and inspect that material, in accordance with the Construction Administrative Regulation.
(d) If, after inspecting and checking a building under subsection (a) of this Article, the Ministry or the construction permit-issuing authority determines that an assessment of the building needs to be made and gives notice, the owner of the building shall, after making an assessment of the building in the manner specified in the Construction Administrative Regulation, prepare a relevant report and submit it to the Ministry or an authority designated by the Ministry.
(e) If, after reviewing the report in subsection (d) of this Article, it is noted that there is a problem with the quality of the building, the Ministry or the construction permit-issuing authority shall instruct the owner of the building to rectify the building.
(f) It is prohibited to willfully obstruct the work of any person entering an area where work is being carried out on behalf of the Ministry or the construction permit-issuing authority in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article.
(g) If the owner of the place fails to act in accordance with an order issued by the Ministry or the construction permit-issuing authority in accordance with subsections (a), (d), and (e) of this Article, the Ministry or the construction permit-issuing authority shall have the authority to fine that person an amount between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand) in accordance with the Construction Administrative Regulation, depending on the severity of the offense. And if the work is not stopped and is repeated, 3% (three percent) of the fine amount shall be added for each day of repetition.
(h) The details and copies of reports of an inspection carried out in accordance with subsections (a) and (d) of this Article shall be submitted to the Ministry by the construction permit-issuing authority within the period specified in the Construction Administrative Regulation.

CHAPTER SEVEN

MAINTAINING THE QUALITY OF MATERIALS USED IN CONSTRUCTION

Purpose of maintaining the quality of materials used in construction

    The purpose of importing materials used for construction, controlling the production of such materials, and testing those materials is to maintain the quality and standards of materials used for construction in the Maldives and the way they are used at a good level.

Import, production, and use of materials for construction

    Except for the types controlled under Article 55 of this Act, it is permissible to produce or import into the Maldives and use for construction any other material from among the materials used for construction.

Testing of materials used for construction

54.
(a) The Ministry shall have the authority to establish procedures for testing materials used in construction in order to maintain the quality of materials used for construction.
(b) Materials used for construction shall be tested by persons licensed under the Regulation on Testing of Materials Used in Construction, in accordance with that regulation.
(c) In order to achieve the purposes specified in this chapter, a laboratory of a standard capable of testing the types of materials used in the construction industry shall be established within 12 (twelve) months from the commencement of this Act, in accordance with the Regulation on Testing of Materials Used in Construction.

Controlled items

55.
(a) The Ministry shall have the authority to control the import into the Maldives and the production in the Maldives of materials used in construction, for the purpose of maintaining the quality of materials used for construction and ensuring that they are used correctly.
(b) The types of items controlled under this Article shall be specified in the Regulation on Controlling the Import and Production of Materials Used for Construction made under this Act.
(c) The types of items controlled under this Article shall be determined after specifying the different types of materials, their quality (specification or standard), and use.
(d) The procedures for granting permits for the production in the Maldives and import into the Maldives of the types of items controlled under this Article shall be specified in the Regulation on Controlling the Import and Production of Materials Used for Construction made by the Ministry under this Act.

CHAPTER EIGHT

PRIORITY TO MALDIVIANS IN THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY

Priority to Maldivians

    In carrying out works in the construction industry, priority shall be given to Maldivians as much as possible. The purpose of giving priority to Maldivians in this manner is to achieve the following.
    (a) To facilitate the creation of more employment opportunities for Maldivians in the construction industry;
    (b) To make the works carried out in the Maldives works that incorporate the skills of Maldivians;
    (c) To provide opportunities to capable Maldivians working in the construction industry;
    (d) To open up opportunities for Maldivians to provide and deliver services from their own islands within the construction industry.

Outcomes of giving priority to Maldivians

    The desired outcomes of giving priority to Maldivians in carrying out works in the construction industry are:
    (a) An increase and retention of the proportion of foreign currency circulating in the Maldivian economy as Maldivians get employment opportunities;
    (b) The creation of employment opportunities for a large number of working-age people throughout the Maldives;
    (c) An increase in the skills of Maldivian workers.

Proportion of priority to be given to Maldivians

    In order to achieve the purposes of the matters specified in this chapter, the ways in which priority will be given to Maldivians shall be determined in the regulations specified in Article 95 of this Act.

CHAPTER NINE

REGISTRATION AND CLASSIFICATION OF PERSONS OPERATING IN THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY

Purpose of Registration

    The purpose of registering persons and activities in the construction industry under this Act is:
    (a) To assess and record that the person has the qualifications and conditions related to that permit; and
    (b) As the works of the construction industry are technical works that must be carried out with safety, to establish a way to identify that the persons carrying out such works are capable persons.

Outcomes of Registration

    The outcomes of registering persons operating in the construction industry under this Act are:
    (a) To check whether they are persons operating with a license, to know the status of their license, and to know the information of their license;
    (b) To make their information publicly available;
    (c) To provide the information needed to deal with them;
    (d) To pave the way for taking necessary action against them under this Act;
    (e) To make it publicly known which of them have had action taken against them.

Fields of Registration

    The Ministry shall maintain registers of the following persons or programs operating in the construction industry under this Act.
    (a) Construction permit-issuing authorities;
    (b) Professional persons specified in the Regulation on Professionals Working in the Construction Industry;
    (c) Technical persons operating in the construction industry;
    (d) Builders;
    (e) Persons who test materials used for construction;
    (f) Professional associations to which construction-related persons belong;
    (g) Academic programs in the professional and technical fields of construction;
    (h) Persons who produce and import materials used for construction.

Regulations for Registration

62.
(a) The Ministry shall make regulations concerning the registration of the persons specified in Article 61 of this Act and publish them in the Government Gazette.
(b) The regulations for each register made under subsection (a) of this Article shall include the following components.
(1) The classifications included in that register and the minimum eligibility criteria for each classification;
(2) A code of conduct;
(3) The responsibility of the persons registered in each classification of each register;
(4) Information on all documents to be submitted for registration, and all information to be included in the issued permit;
(5) The period of registration and the procedures for renewal of registration;
(6) The circumstances in which a registration may be revoked or suspended and the measures that may be taken;
(7) The procedure for submitting a case regarding a registered person and the procedure for reviewing such a case;
(8) If registration or a permit is required under another law.
(c) The regulations relating to the registers shall include standards requiring the persons specified in subsections (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f) of Article 61 of this Act to be insured.

Publicizing information in the register

    The Ministry shall publicly publish certain information specified from among the information related to the persons registered under the regulations made under subsection (a) of Article 62 of this Act. And the procedure for publicizing the information of such persons shall be specified in that regulation.

Responsibility of registered persons

64.
(a) Authorities and persons registered under this Act shall carry out all matters required to be done under the classification for which they are licensed in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.
(b) If a person licensed under this Act becomes aware that something is being done in the construction industry in contravention of this Act and the regulations made hereunder, he/she shall inform the construction permit-issuing authority.

Working without registration or outside the registered classification

65.
(a) It is prohibited for any of the authorities or persons operating in the construction industry to pretend to be registered to carry out a specific work under a specific classification without being registered to do so, or to act in a manner that implies so.
(b) A person who commits an act specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be fined an amount between MVR 2,500 (two thousand five hundred) and MVR 250,000 (two hundred and fifty thousand) by the Ministry, depending on the severity of the offense.
(c) It is prohibited for a person registered under this Act to fail to inform the Ministry of a change in the information provided by that person for the purpose of registration.
(d) A person who commits an act specified in subsection (c) of this Article shall be fined an amount between MVR 2,000 (two thousand) and MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand) by the Ministry, depending on the severity of the offense.

Taking action on cases submitted regarding licensed persons

66.
(a) The Ministry shall review a case submitted against a person licensed by the Ministry under this Act in accordance with the relevant regulations and shall take action in the manner prescribed in that regulation.
(b) In taking action under this Article, the Ministry shall have the power to take action in relation to work done by a person in contravention of this Act and the regulations made hereunder, even if that person is not a person registered under this Act.
(c) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, the Ministry shall not review a case related to a permit issued by another authority under another law.

Action to be taken when licensed persons contravene the prescribed standards

67.
(a) If the Ministry becomes aware that a person specified in the regulations made under Article 62 of this Act has committed an act prohibited by that regulation, the Ministry shall, upon the advice of a committee appointed by the Ministry to investigate the matter, take action against that person as follows.
(1) Give a warning;
(2) If the notice given to that person specifies that a particular training must be completed, order to act accordingly;
(3) If the scope of work of that person needs to be restricted, act accordingly, set certain conditions, and record it in the register;
(4) Suspend the license until the conditions for granting that license are met by that person, or for a period not exceeding 12 (twelve) months, and record that the license has been suspended;
(5) Revoke the license of that person, remove his/her name from the register, determine a period within which a new license may be issued to that person, and give notice of it;
(6) Fine that person an amount between MVR 2,500 (two thousand five hundred) and MVR 250,000 (two hundred and fifty thousand), depending on the severity of the offense.
(b) In taking action under subsection (a) of this Article, the Ministry shall have the authority to take more than one of the measures specified in that Article at the same time, depending on the severity of the offense.
(c) In addition to recording a measure taken by the Ministry under this Article in the register, the Ministry shall have the authority to publicly disclose information related to that measure in a manner prescribed in the regulations.

Failure of a licensed person to pay a fee or fine

    If any person fails to pay any money payable under paragraph (6) of subsection (a) of Article 67 of this Act or under subsection (b) of that Article within 60 (sixty) days from the date of being ordered to pay that money, the license of that person shall be suspended until that money is paid. And if that money is not paid within 12 (twelve) months, the license of that person shall be revoked, and the revocation shall be recorded in the register.

Classification

69.
(a) In classifying persons working in the construction industry, the proportion of Maldivians employed by them shall be taken into account. In this way, more marks shall be given in the classification to those with a higher proportion of Maldivians.
(b) In addition to the matters specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the matters to be considered in the classification shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

CHAPTER TEN

GUARANTEE OF PAYMENT FOR SERVICES AND WORK

Existence of an agreement to carry out construction work

    No work in the construction industry shall be carried out without an agreement between the two parties to carry out the work. The minimum components to be included in such an agreement shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Entitlement to payment and price for work, services, and goods

71.
(a) Unless expressly stated otherwise in a construction agreement, when construction work is being carried out under that agreement, upon completion of certain works or when the value of the work reaches a certain amount, the person who carried out the work shall be entitled to payment for the amount of work done.
(b) Unless expressly stated otherwise in a construction agreement, when a construction-related service is being provided under that agreement, upon the provision of the service to a certain extent, the service provider shall be entitled to payment for the extent of the service provided.
(c) Unless expressly stated otherwise in a construction agreement, when goods are being supplied for construction work under that agreement, upon the supply of goods to a certain extent, the supplier of the goods shall be entitled to the price of the goods for the extent of the goods supplied.

Amount of payment

    The payment or price to which a person is entitled under Article 71 of this Act shall be the payment or price calculated in one of the following two ways.
    (a) The amount of money calculated in accordance with the principles in the agreement; or
    (b) If the principles for calculating the money are not specified in the agreement, the value of the construction work done or the goods or services provided by that person under the agreement.

Valuation of construction work and supplied goods and services

73.
(a) The construction work done or the goods or services supplied under an agreement shall be valued as follows.
(1) In accordance with the principles specified in the agreement; or
(2) If such a principle is not specified in the agreement, after considering the circumstances specified in subsection (b) of this Article.
(b) For the purpose of paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this Article, the construction work done or the goods or services supplied under an agreement shall be valued after considering the following matters.
(1) The price agreed upon for the construction work, and the supply of goods or services;
(2) Any other rate or price specified in the agreement;
(3) If the parties to the agreement have agreed in the agreement that a specific amount of addition or deduction may be made to the price in the agreement or any other rate or price specified in the agreement, that addition or deduction;
(4) In a case other than the cases specified in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this subsection, the prevailing market rate or price for that work in the construction industry at the time the construction work was carried out or the goods and services were supplied;
(5) The cost of rectifying any part of the construction work and the supplied goods or services that has not been done properly;
(6) The price of goods brought to be included as part of a building, the ownership of which will be transferred to the owner of that place upon payment.

Due date for payment

74.
(a) If the due date for payment for work is specified in a construction agreement, the due date shall be the date specified in the agreement.
(b) If the date for payment for work is not specified in a construction agreement, the due date for payment shall be 30 (thirty) days from the submission of a valid invoice after the completion of the work.
(c) If the due date for payment for a service or goods supplied to a certain extent is specified in an agreement for the provision of a service or goods, the due date for payment for that matter shall be the period specified in that agreement.
(d) If the due date for payment for a service or goods supplied to a certain extent is not specified in an agreement for the provision of a service or goods, the due date for payment shall be 30 (thirty) days from the submission of a valid invoice after the completion of the work.
(e) A fine for non-payment of a payment or price within the due period shall be levied in accordance with the principle specified in the agreement. And if the method of levying a fine is not specified in the agreement, it shall be done in the manner prescribed in the regulations made under this Act.

Prohibition of payment upon receipt of funds

    If a clause is included in a construction agreement stating that payment for work done or a service or goods provided by any person will be made upon receipt of funds, without specifying any period, that clause shall be void.

Requesting payment

76.
(a) A request for payment shall be made in the manner specified in the agreement. And if such a procedure is not specified in the agreement, it shall be in the manner prescribed in the regulations made under this Act.
(b) When submitting a request for payment, the amount of money requested and the period to which the payment relates shall be stated. And additional information and documents specified in the regulations made under this Act shall be included.

Responding to a request for payment

77.
(a) Upon a request for payment or price under a construction, service, or supply agreement, if there is no issue with the submitted invoice, the payment or price shall be paid within the period specified in that agreement. And if an issue is identified, a response shall be given within the period specified in the agreement, stating the issue.
(b) If a specific period is not specified in a construction, service, or supply agreement, upon a request for payment or price, if there is no issue with the submitted invoice, the payment or price shall be paid within 30 (thirty) days. And if an issue is identified, a response shall be given within 21 (twenty-one) days, stating the issue.
(c) If an overpayment has been made in paying the payment as specified in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article, the overpaid amount may be deducted from the total amount of the invoice submitted before the final payment or price is paid.

CHAPTER ELEVEN

MISCELLANEOUS

Special places and objects found in an area where construction work is being carried out

78.
(a) If a special place or object is found in an area where construction work is being carried out, the work shall be stopped immediately, the relevant government authority shall be informed, and action shall be taken as directed by that authority. And the relevant authority and the person carrying out the work shall agree within 10 (ten) days on the resumption of the work stopped in this manner, and the work shall be continued as agreed.
(b) If information about special places and objects found in an area where construction work is being carried out is not reported as specified in subsection (a) of this Article, that person shall be fined in accordance with the Construction Administrative Regulation.

Time-bound matters

    It is prohibited to fail to do a thing prescribed to be done at a specific time or within a specific period by this Act or a regulation made hereunder at that time or within that period. And it is prohibited to fail to do a thing that must be done at a specific time, even after that time has passed. If this Article is contravened, action shall be taken in accordance with Article 90 of this Act.

Review of cases

80.
(a) A person who is dissatisfied with a measure taken by a construction permit-issuing authority or the Ministry under this Act and the regulations made hereunder may, within 14 (fourteen) days of receiving information of that measure, submit a request to the Minister to review the matter.
(b) The Minister shall review the submissions made to the Minister under subsection (a) of this Article within 1 (one) month and shall inform the person who submitted the case and the relevant construction permit-issuing authority of the decision.
(c) If a case submitted under this Article is a case related to a measure taken by the Ministry or a construction permit-issuing authority in enforcement of a judicial judgment, the Minister shall accept the judgment and inform the person who submitted the case that there is no room for further review of the case.

Arrangements for access for persons with special needs

81.
(a) If a building being constructed is a state building or a building constructed to provide public services, arrangements shall be made for persons with special needs to easily enter and exit such places.
(b) In the case of altering such a building constructed before the commencement of this Act, compliance with subsection (a) of this Article is also mandatory.
(c) Even if a particular building is not a building as described in subsection (a) of this Article, public services shall be provided in that building, or in a part of that building, only after making arrangements for easy entry and exit for persons with special needs.
(d) If arrangements are not made as described in this Article, action shall be taken against the owner of that place in accordance with the Construction Administrative Regulation.

Non-liability of law enforcement officers

    No action shall be brought against an employee of a construction permit-issuing authority or the Ministry, or an employee of a construction permit-issuing authority, or a person working on behalf of the Ministry for anything done or omitted to be done in good faith in the performance of his/her duties in accordance with the law and regulations.

No obligation to inspect the manner of work or to verify the authenticity of documents

    Except in the cases expressly specified in this Act and the regulations made hereunder, this Act does not require the Ministry or a permit-issuing authority to inspect the manner in which work is being carried out at a construction site, or to verify the authenticity of any drawing, certificate, notice, or any other document.

The person liable for prosecution for work done in contravention of the law

84.
(a) For the purpose of bringing a relevant prosecution for a contravention of this Act, the owner of a place where such an act occurs shall be deemed to be the responsible person until it is proven that there is another person responsible for that act. And if it is proven that the person responsible for the work is a person other than the owner, the person liable to prosecution shall be the person so proven.
(b) When a prosecution is brought in relation to a building under the ownership of more than one person for failure to do something that the owner of the building is required to do under this Act, the following may be used in defense of the person against whom the prosecution is brought.
(1) That such an act was committed by an owner other than the owner against whom the prosecution is brought; or
(2) That a notice or order under this Act in relation to such an act was issued to an owner other than the owner against whom the prosecution is brought.

Responsibility of the owner even if the ownership of a building is transferred

85.
(a) Even if the ownership of any building is transferred, an order or notice issued to the owner of that building by the construction permit-issuing authority or the Ministry under this Act and the regulations made hereunder shall not be invalidated.
(b) The responsibility for an order or notice as described in subsection (a) of this Article shall be borne by the seller of that building, unless otherwise agreed between the seller and the buyer.
(c) The transaction of transferring the ownership of any building shall be carried out after fulfilling the matters specified in the Construction Administrative Regulation.
(d) If the owner of a building has to pay an expense to the Ministry or the construction permit-issuing authority for something done in a building under this Act, the person referred to in subsection (b) of this Article shall pay that expense, even if the owner of that building has transferred the ownership of that building, except in cases where the construction agreement states otherwise.

Property and things that may be seized or taken

86.
(a) If no person claims ownership of any property or thing seized or taken in the performance of the duties of the construction permit-issuing authority or the Ministry under this Act within 20 (twenty) days from the date of its seizure or taking, efforts shall be made to return that thing in accordance with the Construction Administrative Regulation.
(b) If a property or thing cannot be returned as described in subsection (a) of this Article, that property or thing shall be deemed to be property or a thing confiscated by the state, and the construction permit-issuing authority or the Ministry shall have the power to deal with that property or thing in accordance with the regulations on dealing with property confiscated by the state.
(c) If any person claims ownership of a property or thing referred to in subsection (a) of this Article within 20 (twenty) days, the Ministry or the construction permit-issuing authority shall return that property or thing to that person with certain conditions determined by them.

Delivery of documents

    A document, order, or notice required to be delivered to any person under this Act shall be deemed to have been duly delivered to that person upon delivery of that thing in accordance with the Construction Administrative Regulation.

Obtaining information

88.
(a) If a construction permit-issuing authority or the Ministry, in relation to a case it is investigating, requests a person who the authority believes can provide information on the matter to provide information about it, that person shall provide the information known to him/her.
(b) When requested to provide information as in subsection (a) of this Article, it is prohibited to withhold any information in that request or to knowingly provide false information about it.

Determining the authenticity of documents

89.
(a) Unless otherwise stated in this Article, all documents prepared and issued under this Act shall be deemed to be authentic documents unless proven otherwise.
(b) A document or information sent by means of electronic media submitted as evidence shall be considered as evidence upon submission in accordance with the Construction Administrative Regulation.

General Penalty

    If it is not specifically stated in this Act how to take action against those who violate this Act, the Ministry shall have the discretion to take one of the following actions against such persons, depending on the severity of the offense.
    (a) Suspend a permit or permits issued under this Act; or
    (b) Impose a fine not exceeding MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand); or
    (c) Suspend the permit referred to in subsection (a) of this Article and impose a fine not exceeding MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand); and
    (d) In a case where the Ministry has ordered the rectification of a certain matter, if that matter is not rectified by the expiry of the period given to do so, impose an additional fine of 3% (three percent) of the fine imposed under this Article for each day that passes until that matter is rectified.

Application of the law to the state

    Unless otherwise stated in this Act, this Act and all regulations made hereunder shall apply equally to all institutions of the state.

Permits issued and places under construction before the commencement of this Act

    Unless otherwise specified in this Act or a regulation made hereunder, the following shall apply to permits issued and places under construction before the commencement of this Act.
    (a) A valid document, permit, or license issued shall be considered a valid thing.
    (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, the period of a permit for a temporary building for which a permit has been issued under an existing regulation or procedure shall be deemed to be up to 6 (six) months from the date of commencement of this Act.
    (c) This Act shall also apply to buildings constructed in contravention of regulations.
    (d) The period of a valid permit or license issued shall be deemed to be the period prescribed for that permit or license in this Act and the regulations made hereunder from the date of commencement of this Act.
    (e) Until a regulation required to be made under this Act is formulated and comes into force as specified in Article 95 of this Act, the regulation previously in force in relation to that matter shall continue to be in force.
    (f) If an alteration is made to any building or infrastructure built before the enforcement of this Act or a regulation made hereunder, that alteration must be an alteration that complies with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

How to construct a building on an island or in a lagoon without a planning regulation

    If a building is being constructed on an island or in a lagoon that does not have a planning regulation, the building shall be constructed in such a place in the manner specified in the regulation on how to construct a building on islands or in lagoons without a planning regulation.

Occurrence of a dangerous incident

94.
(a) If information is received of the occurrence of a dangerous incident in any building where construction work is being carried out or in any other building, the authority that issued the construction permit or the Ministry shall be informed. And upon receipt of such information by the Ministry of Construction or a permit-issuing authority, that authority shall investigate how the incident occurred.
(b) Upon receipt of information of an incident that is considered to be a dangerous situation by a permit-issuing authority, the matter shall be brought to the notice of the Ministry. After reviewing the information received in this manner in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder, the Ministry may declare the incident a dangerous incident.
(c) If a dangerous situation as described in subsection (a) of this Article is a matter that requires the cessation of work, the work shall be stopped immediately and action shall be taken as described in this Article.
(d) If an incident referred to in subsection (a) of this Article is declared a dangerous incident by the Ministry under subsection (b) of this Article, action shall be taken as follows.
(1) The Board shall investigate the incident and prepare a report in accordance with the Construction Administrative Regulation;
(2) If the report referred to in paragraph (1) of this subsection states that a matter needs to be rectified, the Ministry shall inform the person specified in the report to rectify the matter and ensure that the person does so.
(e) If the person to whom a notice is addressed fails to comply with the notice issued under subsection (d) of this Article, the Ministry shall have the authority to fine that person an amount between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand), depending on the severity of the offense. And an additional fine of 3% (three percent) of the fine imposed shall be levied for each day of non-compliance with the order.

Making Regulations

95.
(a) In order to enforce this Act, the Ministry shall make the following regulations and publish them in the Government Gazette within a maximum of 6 (six) months from the date of commencement of this Act.
(1) Construction Administrative Regulation;
(2) Building Code;
(3) Regulation on Professionals Working in the Construction Industry;
(4) Regulation on Contractors in the Construction Industry;
(5) Regulation on Safety Standards to be followed in Construction Work;
(6) Regulation on Materials Used for Construction and Material Testing Bodies;
(7) Regulation on Academic Programs in the Professional and Technical Fields of Construction;
(8) Regulation on Professional Associations to which Construction-Related Persons Belong;
(9) Regulation on Appealing Decisions made under this Act and the Regulations made hereunder;
(10) Regulation on Testing of Materials Used for Construction;
(11) Regulation on Controlling the Import and Production of Materials Used for Construction;
(12) Regulation on How to Construct in Islands or Lagoons without a Planning Regulation;
(13) Regulation on Registration of Construction Permit Issuing Authorities;
(14) Other regulations related to construction.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, the Construction Administrative Regulation referred to in paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of this Article shall be made by the Ministry and published in the Government Gazette within 1 (one) month from the commencement of this Act.
(c) The procedures and notices issued by the Ministry in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder shall be published publicly. And the Ministry shall make such procedures and notices easily accessible.

Parts to be included in the regulations

    The regulations made under this Act shall include at least the following parts.
    (a) The Construction Administrative Regulation shall include the following parts.
    (1) Procedures for designating construction and use permit-issuing authorities;
    (2) Responsibilities of construction and use permit-issuing authorities;
    (3) Details of documents to be submitted when applying for a construction and use permit;
    (4) Methods for quality control during construction work;
    (5) The amount and procedures for fees charged in connection with a construction work permit;
    (6) The procedure to be followed when applying for and issuing a construction and use permit;
    (7) The procedure to be followed in revoking a construction and use permit;
    (8) The procedure for fining;
    (9) Other parts to be included to facilitate administrative matters for the enforcement of this Act.
    (b) The Building Code shall include the parts specified in Article 41 of this Act.
    (c) The regulations on registration shall include the parts specified in Article 62 of this Act.
    (d) The Regulation on Professionals Working in the Construction Industry shall include the parts specified in Article 62 and subsection (b) of Article 69 of this Act.
    (e) The Regulation on Contractors in the Construction Industry shall include the parts specified in Article 62 and subsection (b) of Article 69 of this Act.
    (f) The regulation on safety matters to be followed in construction work shall include the following parts.
    (1) The minimum measures to be taken for the safety and security of workers and the general public;
    (2) The measures to be taken for non-compliance with the regulation, and the parties who will take the measures.
    (g) The regulation on materials used for construction work and material testing bodies shall include the parts specified in Article 62 of this Act.
    (h) The regulation on academic programs in the professional and technical fields of construction shall include the following parts.
    (1) The parts specified in Article 62 of this Act;
    (2) The standards to be considered in accepting construction-related passes obtained from a training center outside the Maldives.
    (i) The regulation on professional associations to which construction-related persons belong shall include the parts specified in Article 62 of this Act.
    (j) The regulation on appealing decisions made under this Act and a regulation made hereunder shall include the following parts.
    (1) The cases that can be appealed and the circumstances in which an appeal can be made;
    (2) The procedures to be followed in appealing;
    (3) The period for submitting an appeal;
    (4) The method of disclosing the outcome of the appealed case.
    (k) The regulation on testing of materials shall include the following parts.
    (1) The types of items that can be tested;
    (2) The standards to be considered in testing;
    (3) The periods for which permits are given for tested materials;
    (4) The places where testing can be done.
    (l) The regulation on controlling the import of materials used for construction shall include the following parts.
    (1) The types of items whose import is controlled;
    (2) The method of checking the quality of controlled items;
    (3) The ways in which permits can be given for the import of controlled items.

Exemptions from this Act

97.
(a) Construction work related to the tourism industry carried out on uninhabited islands and lagoons leased for tourism, and buildings not exceeding 1 (one) story for residential purposes in the atolls shall be exempted from this Act as specified in subsection (b) of this Article.
(b) The manner, principles, and standards for exempting the places and works specified in subsection (a) of this Article from this Act shall be specified in a regulation made by the Ministry under this Act.
(c) The Ministry shall make the regulation referred to in subsection (b) of this Article and publish it in the Government Gazette within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act.

Commencement of the Act

    This Act shall come into force upon the expiry of 6 (six) months from the date of its publication in the Government Gazette.

Definitions

    Unless the context in which a phrase or word is used in this Act clearly indicates otherwise, the following phrases and words shall have the meanings given below.
    (a) "Register" means the register maintained by the Ministry containing information on persons licensed under this Act.
    (b) "Building Code" means the regulation made under paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of Article 95 of this Act, which contains the standards to be followed in construction.
    (c) "Alteration" in relation to a building, includes repairing, extending, rebuilding, re-erecting, adding a part to, and removing a part from that building.
    (d) "Construction" means the creation of buildings and places or the establishment of systems in the built environment. The built environment includes systems established to meet essential needs, places providing services, housing, roads, sewerage, electricity, and harbors and other places needed for infrastructure development.
    (e) "Drawings and documents" means the designs, drawings, and documents prepared for the purpose of carrying out a building or an alteration to a building in accordance with specific specifications.
    (f) "Building" includes the following places. And unless otherwise stated in this Act, the meaning of building also includes a part of a building.
    (1) Temporary or permanent, or movable or immovable structures. Such places include places used for human habitation, for commerce, for other purposes, for keeping animals, and for storing machinery and goods;
    (2) A mast or communication tower that is more than 7 (seven) meters high from the place where it is installed, and is installed in a building or as part of a building; (This does not include a dish antenna not exceeding 2 (two) meters in width.)
    (3) A temporary or permanent structure made to retain land or to prevent soil erosion;
    (4) A floating structure made in a manner as described below, other than a boat or a sea-going vessel:
    i. A structure supported or intended to be supported in water;
    ii. A structure not used or not usable for navigational purposes;
    iii. A structure permanently anchored or that can be kept anchored.
    (5) A culvert, a bridge, a pedestrian bridge, a tunnel, or an underpass;
    (6) A sewage treatment plant, a sewage system, a canal, a swimming pool, or any other non-proprietary tank used for storing solid, liquid, or gas;
    (7) Structures such as wind turbines;
    (8) A harbor, a jetty, or a causeway;
    (9) Things like revetments made to protect the coast or to protect other such places;
    (10) Roads, and other structures made for transportation;
    (11) Things made or established to bear or support weight.
    (g) "Construction Permit" means the permit issued by a construction permit-issuing authority under Article 24 of this Act to carry out construction work.
    (h) "Construction Permit Issuing Authority" means the authority licensed by the Ministry to issue permits for construction works, to inspect those works, and to provide assistance in reviewing various related matters.
    (i) "Persons engaged in the construction industry" includes building practitioners, builders, building inspectors, supervisors of construction work, and persons who test materials used for construction.
    (j) "Inspection of construction work" means:
    (1) To inspect the design of the building, and to review the drawings and documents made; or
    (2) To inspect the way the building is constructed; or
    (3) To check whether the construction work has been carried out in accordance with the permitted drawing.
    (k) "Construction work" means:
    (1) To construct a building or to add a part to a building or to demolish a building; or
    (2) To alter a building or to add a part to a building or to repair a building; or
    (3) To install, add, or replace an air-conditioning system or a ventilation system in or connected to a building; and
    (4) Also includes the works carried out to prepare a site for the works in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this subsection.
    (l) "Client" means the owner of the building or any person who commissions a construction work in relation to any of the matters specified in paragraph (2) of this subsection. And any person who does any of the following as a business from among the persons who develop buildings on a commercial basis.
    (1) Construction; or
    (2) Facilitating and providing for construction; or
    (3) The person who buys the building from the person who constructed or facilitated and provided for the construction.
    (m) "Builder" or "Contractor" means any person who carries out a construction work specified in this Act. It includes the following persons.
    (1) Partners of the builder or contractor;
    (2) A business in which the builder or contractor has a substantial number of shares;
    (3) If the builder or contractor is a business entity:
    i. A person who has a substantial number of shares in that business;
    ii. A director or company secretary of that business or a person holding such a position.
    (4) If the builder or contractor is a trustee, a beneficiary of that trust;
    (5) A person working for the builder or contractor.
    (n) "Building Occupancy Permit" means the permit issued under Article 32 of this Act to use a building or a part of a building upon its completion.
    (o) "Public Notice" means to give public notice as follows.
    (1) To publish in a daily newspaper; or
    (2) To publish in the Government Gazette; or
    (3) To publish on an internet website that is publicly accessible at all reasonable times; or
    (4) To publish through announcements and notices displayed at construction sites and government offices.
    (p) "Owner" means:
    (1) The person to whom the rent from that building is received or the person to whom the rent from that building would be received in his/her own capacity if that building were rented out. This includes a person who receives the house as a mortgage. or
    (2) In the case of a common part of a building divided into units, the company entrusted with the maintenance of that building. or
    (3) A person who receives rent or a fee from a part of the common area of a building divided into units, or the person entrusted with the maintenance of that part. or
    (4) In the case of a common part of a residential or commercial building built under a real estate development corporation, the board of that corporation. or
    (5) In the case of a common part of a building not divided into units, a company entrusted with the maintenance of that part or a person who receives rent from that part, or the person entrusted with the maintenance of that part.
    (q) "Temporary Building" means temporary places built for a specified period using low-quality or short-life materials.
    (r) "Temporary Use Permit" means a temporary permit issued for the use of a building.
    (s) "Business" means a business, or a field of business, or a profession, or an employment, and any other activity carried on for the purpose of gain in relation to any of the following.
    (1) To provide or obtain a good or service;
    (2) To purchase a household unit, to conduct a business from land.
    (t) "Action" means a decision made upon reviewing a complaint made about a licensed person operating in the construction industry, or upon an investigation into the conduct of any such person.
    (u) "Ministry" means the government ministry to which the responsibility for implementing policies related to construction is assigned at the time.
    (v) "Minister" means the minister of the government ministry to which the responsibility for implementing policies related to construction is assigned at the time.
    (w) "Material Testing Body" means the bodies that test the materials used in the construction industry and the way those materials are used.
    (x) "Natural Hazard" means a danger arising from a natural event.
    (y) "Structural Work" means the work done to create the structural parts of a building.
    (z) "Building Inspection" means to criticize, control, and supervise the way a construction work is being carried out in connection with that work in order to achieve a purpose such as the following.
    (1) To check whether the work is being carried out to a satisfactory standard; and
    (2) To check whether the work is being carried out in accordance with the permit issued for that work.
    (aa) "Unsanitary Building" means a building such as the following.
    (1) Buildings that are or are considered to be harmful to health due to the location of the building or the way it is constructed or due to deterioration and decay or due to the need for repair; or
    (2) The system to prevent the formation of moisture inside the building is inadequate or the system is faulty due to water entering the building or due to condensation in the building;
    (3) If a building is designed to use water in that place, buildings where the water available to that building is unsuitable for use; or
    (4) Buildings that lack adequate sanitation services for the intended purpose in a building.
    (bb) "Board" means the Maldives Building and Construction Board established under this Act.
    (cc) "Person" includes natural persons and legal persons.
