Cooperative Society Act

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This is the law concerning the formation, registration, and administration of Cooperative Societies in the Maldives.
(b) This law shall be cited as the "Cooperative Society Act."
(c) Hereinafter in this law, "Society" shall be used to refer to a Cooperative Society.

Non-applicability of Companies Act and Associations Act

2.
The Companies Act of the Maldives (Act No. 10/96) and the Associations Act (Act No. 1/2003) shall not apply to Societies.

Commencement, Administration, and Regulation Making

3.
(a) This law shall come into force 6 (six) months after it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.
(b) This law shall be administered, and the regulations on the administration of Cooperative Societies necessary for the implementation of this law shall be made and administered by the Ministry designated by the government at the time to oversee the affairs of Societies.
(c) The regulations mentioned in section (b) of this Article shall be made and publicly announced within 6 (six) months from the date this law comes into force.

Prohibition of the Use of the Word "Cooperative"

4.
No party other than a Society registered under this law shall use the word "Cooperative" for the purpose of trade, conducting a business, or as a business name.

Registration

Registrar of Cooperatives

5.
A government body shall be designated to register Societies under this law and to oversee the administration of Societies. This body shall be called the "Registrar of Cooperative Societies."

Societies that May Be Registered

6.
A Society may be registered under this law for the purpose of promoting the economic interests of the community or a part of the community, in accordance with the cooperative principles stated in Article 7 of this law.

Main Principles of a Cooperative Society

7.
A Cooperative Society shall be founded upon the following principles:
(a) A Cooperative Society shall be a free association formed by a community or a part of a community on their own initiative, aiming to fulfill their own economic and social needs, in accordance with this law.[1][2][3]
(b) The owners of the Society shall be its members. All power to administer the Society shall originate from the members. Thus, the Society shall be administered by a body elected by the members from among themselves through democratic principles.[1][2][4]
(c) The opportunity to become a member of a Society shall be open to all individuals of that community on an equal basis without any discrimination.[1][3][4]
(d) The shares of the Society shall be equal among all members without exception.
(e) If the capital of the Society is to be increased, it shall be done at the annual general meeting of the shareholders. Such a matter shall be passed by a 60% majority of those present.

Amount of Shares to be Purchased by Parties Other Than the Government

8.
Every member of the Society shall, in order to become a member, purchase the amount of shares prescribed at that time.

Purchase of Shares by the Government, and Provision of Loans and Aid

9.
The government may purchase shares of a Society. And, in accordance with the law and regulations, the government may provide loans and other assistance to the Society.[5]

Responsibilities of the Registrar

10.
The responsibilities of the Registrar are stated below.
(a) To register and dissolve Societies.[5]
(b) To ensure that Societies are administered in accordance with this law and the regulations made hereunder.[5]
(c) To investigate complaints submitted regarding the expenditure of Society funds and the maintenance of financial accounts.

Powers of the Registrar

11.
(a) The Registrar, or a party appointed by the Registrar, may inspect the accounts and business operations of a Society whenever the Registrar deems it necessary. In this regard, the Registrar has the authority to inspect account books and all related documents, to take copies of such documents when necessary, and to order the Society's office to be kept open at reasonable times for the purpose of inspecting these documents. The Society must facilitate these matters for the Registrar without any hindrance.
(b) In relation to a complaint received by the Registrar regarding the administration of a Society, the Registrar has the authority to obtain any information required from a Society in order to respond to that complaint.
(c) In addition to the powers mentioned in sections (a) and (b) of this Article, the powers vested in the Registrar are stated below.
(1) To determine the system for maintaining the accounts of a Society.
(2) To determine, for example, the maximum amount of debt a Society may incur.
(3) To freeze the bank accounts of a Society in connection with a matter of expenditure of the Society's funds.
(4) To stop any act carried out by a Society that is contrary to its objectives.
(5) To attend the general meetings and specially convened general meetings of the Society and to send persons appointed by the Registrar to such meetings.
(6) To order the convening of general meetings and specially convened general meetings of the Society, and in relation to a matter believed to be conducted by a Society in violation of the law, upon receiving sufficient evidence and grounds for the Registrar to believe that such an act is being conducted, to temporarily suspend the managing committee, and in such circumstances, to elect an interim committee to administer the Society, and until such a committee is elected, the Registrar has the authority to temporarily entrust the administration of the Society to another party appointed by the Registrar for that purpose.

Application for Registration

12.
(a) An application to register a Society shall be made by a minimum of 10 persons.
(b) An application to register a Society in accordance with section (a) of this Article shall be submitted to the Registrar after completing the following information and along with that information.
(1) The economic need for forming a Society.
(2) A statement clarifying the extent to which the objectives of the Society can be achieved.
(3) The manner in which sufficient funds will be obtained to achieve the activities planned by the Society, and the manner in which records and accounts will be maintained.
(4) A temporary body to administer the Society until the managing committee mentioned in Article 28(a) of this law is elected.

Registration Fee and Annual Fee

13.
(a) When applying to register a Society, MVR 200/- shall be paid as a registration fee, and MVR 200/- shall be paid as an annual fee.
(b) The annual fee payable by the Society must be paid before the end of March of that year. If the annual fee is not paid before the end of March, the fee will be accepted during April with a fine of MVR 50/-. If the fee is not paid before the end of April, the fee will be accepted during May with a fine of MVR 100/-.
(c) If the fee, including the fine, is not paid by the end of May in accordance with sections (a) and (b) of this Article, the Registrar has the authority to cancel the registration of that Society after giving written notice to the Society to pay the said amount within 1 month, taking into account the services and responsibilities currently being undertaken by that Society.
(d) If the registration of a Society is cancelled under section (c) of this Article or under any other law, it shall be publicly announced. The Registrar has the authority to order that Society to refrain from entering into any transactions with any party.
(e) The cancellation of a Society's registration under this Article shall not absolve it from any liability imposed upon the Society under this law until all matters concerning the dissolution of that Society are concluded in accordance with this law and the regulations made hereunder.

Name of the Society

14.
(a) A name for a Society shall not be registered if it does not conform to the principles stated in the regulations made under this law.
(b) The word "Cooperative" shall be written at the end of the name as part of the name of every Society.

By-laws

15.
Every Society shall have by-laws. The by-laws shall be made in accordance with this law and the regulations made hereunder.

Registration

16.
Upon application for the registration of a Society, if the proposed activity of the Society is submitted in accordance with this law and the regulations made hereunder, and if the Registrar finds the proposed activity of the Society to be achievable, the Society shall be registered. Upon registration, the Registrar shall issue a certificate of registration to that Society.

Members Applying for Registration

17.
(a) The persons who sign and submit an application to register a Society under this law shall be considered members of the Society. Upon registration of the Society, the names of those members shall be included in the register of members.
(b) Any right of a Society as a member of a Society shall be granted only if the money payable in connection with membership has been paid and if that member has acquired shares in that Society in accordance with the regulations made under this law and the by-laws of that Society.

Becoming a Member and Conditions for Membership

18.
(a) Members of the Society shall be individuals who are 18 years of age and are part of that community or a segment of that community.
(b) A person becomes a member of a Society upon being registered as a member of a Society.
(c) A person can be registered as a member of a Society when an individual who fulfills the conditions stated in this law and the regulations made hereunder applies to become a member of that Society, and is designated as a member of that Society by the body administering that Society in accordance with the principles laid down in this law and the regulations made hereunder.
(d) Upon being designated as a member of the Society, the Society shall issue a written document to that person indicating their membership.

Personality and Administration of the Society

Legal Personality

19.
Upon the registration of a Society under this law, that Society is, in its registered name, a separate legal entity from its members, having the right to conduct its affairs, to sue and be sued, to acquire and receive movable and immovable property, to receive property in perpetuity, and having a separate seal, in accordance with its by-laws.[6][7]

General Meeting

20.
The highest authority of a Society is the general meeting of the members. Every member has the right to attend and vote at this meeting.

First Meeting

21.
(a) Every Society shall hold the first meeting of its members within 60 (sixty) days from the date of receipt of the certificate of registration.
(b) The managing committee of that Society shall be elected at the first meeting held in accordance with section (a) of this Article.

Annual General Meeting

22.
The managing committee of the Society shall hold an annual general meeting of the Society. And a general meeting shall be held within 6 (six) months of the end of the financial year.

Notice of the Annual General Meeting

23.
Unless otherwise specified in the by-laws of the Society, notice of the annual general meeting shall be given by a public announcement 15 days prior to the date of the meeting. The announcement shall state the purpose of the meeting, the agenda, and the place, date, and time of the meeting.

Quorum of the General Meeting and Specially Convened General Meeting

24.
A general meeting or a specially convened general meeting of the Society shall be held with the attendance of at least 5 (five) members, representing not less than 20% of the paid-up capital of that Society.

Matters to be Dealt with at the Annual General Meeting

25.
The following matters shall be discussed and decided upon at the annual general meeting:
(1) Approval of the minutes of the last meeting and the last annual general meeting.
(2) Discussion of the audit report.
(3) Approval of the budget for the upcoming year.
(4) Discussion of the annual report.
(5) Making necessary amendments to the by-laws.
(6) Election of the members of the managing committee.
(7) Appointment of an auditor for the Society's accounts.
(8) Determining the method of distributing or investing the net profit, in accordance with this law and the by-laws.

Specially Convened General Meeting

26.
(a) If the managing committee deems it necessary to hold a specially convened general meeting of the Society, such a meeting may be held. A notice of at least 7 days shall be given for such a meeting, and the members shall be informed publicly.
(b) If not less than 20% of the members of the Society request to hold a general meeting of the Society, a specially convened general meeting shall be held by the managing committee of that Society.
(c) If the managing committee does not hold the meeting within 30 (thirty) days of the members' request for a specially convened general meeting under section (b) of this Article, a request may be submitted to the Registrar stating the reasons for holding such a meeting. The Registrar shall hold such a meeting within 30 (thirty) days of such a submission.
(d) The Registrar or a person appointed by him may determine the matters to be discussed at a specially convened general meeting.

Keeping of Minutes

27.
(a) Every Society shall write and maintain the minutes of all its general meetings in a manner that clearly shows the following information:
(1) The number of members who attended the meeting and the name of the person who presided over the meeting.
(2) The time the meeting started and ended.
(3) The matters discussed and decisions made at the meeting.
(b) The minutes of the general meeting written in accordance with section (a) of this Article shall be signed by the person who presided over the meeting and the secretary of the Society.

Composition of the Managing Committee

28.
(a) The Society shall have a managing committee consisting of not less than 5 members and not more than 15 members.
(b) Persons shall be elected from among the members of the Society to the following positions of the managing committee.
(1) Chairperson
(2) Vice Chairperson
(3) Secretary
(4) Treasurer
(5) Additional Members
(c) The number of additional members of the managing committee shall be determined, and the members of the managing committee shall be elected, dismissed, and their term of office and duties determined, in accordance with the by-laws of the Society.
(d) If a position mentioned in section (b) of this Article becomes vacant before the prescribed term, or if the number of members falls below 5, another member of the Society shall be appointed to that position before the date of the next general meeting. A member shall be appointed in this manner by the managing committee.
(e) A member appointed to the managing committee under section (d) of this Article shall remain in that position until the date of the next earliest general meeting. On the day such a general meeting is held, a new member shall be elected to that position.

Qualifications of Managing Committee Members

29.
A person can become a member of the managing committee if the following conditions are met:
(1) Be a member of the Society.
(2) Be a citizen of the Maldives.
(3) Not be a person who has been declared bankrupt.
(4) Not be a person who has been dismissed from the membership of any Society within the past 5 (five) years.
(5) Not be a person convicted by a court of law for misappropriating the funds of any Society or similar association.

Work of the Managing Committee

30.
(a) In addition to the matters determined by the general meeting, all affairs of the Society's business and property shall be managed and supervised by the managing committee.
(b) Matters that are to be carried out in a specific manner by the by-laws of the Society and the general meeting shall be carried out and supervised in that manner by the managing committee.

Powers of the Managing Committee

31.
(a) The managing committee shall have the power to do the following:
(1) To accept application forms from persons wishing to become members of the Society, to appoint persons who need to be appointed as members, and to invalidate forms that need to be invalidated.
(2) To prepare and study reports necessary to ascertain the general condition, administration, and financial situation of the Society, and to properly manage the affairs of the Society.
(3) To appoint sub-committees.
(4) To provide information on the running of the Society to the members of the Society.
(5) To submit a proposal to the annual general meeting regarding the distribution of profit, if any, in the past financial year, under this law and the by-laws of the Society.
(6) To submit a report to the annual general meeting stating the work done by the managing committee in the past financial year and the things that can be done to further strengthen the services provided to the members of the Society.
(7) To carry out the instructions of the Registrar or the auditor.
(b) To fully document and maintain the progress of the work of the managing committee.
(c) To appoint a manager to manage the affairs of the Society, and to appoint the necessary employees to assist such a manager in his work.

Meetings of the Managing Committee

32.
(a) Meetings of the managing committee shall be held according to the volume of work of the Society. A meeting of the managing committee shall be held at least once every 3 months.
(b) A meeting of the managing committee shall be held with the attendance of at least half of the members of that committee.
(c) A matter shall be passed at a meeting of the managing committee by a majority of the members present at that meeting. In such a vote, the chairman shall not have a vote.
(d) Minutes of the meetings of the managing committee shall be written and maintained.

Responsibility of the Members of the Managing Committee

33.
(a) If the Society or its property suffers any loss due to a violation of this law, the by-laws of the Society, or a decision of the general meeting, or due to a lack of due care in the administration of the Society's affairs, the members of the managing committee shall be individually and collectively responsible for that loss.
(b) Even if a manager has been appointed to manage and supervise the affairs of the Society, the managing committee shall not be absolved of its responsibilities to provide guidance in the affairs of the Society.

Term of the Managing Committee

34.
(a) The term of the managing committee is 2 years from the date of its first meeting. The committee shall be dissolved upon the expiry of that term.
(b) After the expiry of the term of the managing committee, the managing committee shall inform the Society in writing to hold a special meeting to appoint members to the committee.
(c) Until the managing committee is appointed in the manner described in section (b) of this Article, a temporary managing committee may be formed by the Registrar.
(d) A temporary managing committee formed under section (c) of this Article shall remain until the next earliest general meeting, if the managing committee has not been appointed in the manner described in section (b) of this Article. On the day such a general meeting is held, members shall be re-elected to that position.

Conduct of Committee Members

35.
The conduct of the members of the managing committee shall be in accordance with this law and the regulations made hereunder.

Consecutive Term Limit for Committee Membership

36.
After serving as a member of the managing committee for 3 consecutive terms, the opportunity to become a member of the managing committee shall be available after 2 years from the last departure from membership.

Procedure Upon Vacancy in the Managing Committee

37.
If a position in the managing committee becomes vacant, a member shall be elected to that position in accordance with Article 28(e) and Article 34(b) of this law.

Members of the Managing Committee

38.
(a) If any member alleges that a member of the managing committee has abused his position or has acted in a manner detrimental to the Society, the matter shall be investigated by the managing committee. If the managing committee receives sufficient evidence and grounds to believe that the person has committed the act, the Registrar has the authority to dismiss that member from the managing committee.
(b) A person dismissed from membership under section (a) of this Article may become a member of any Society or a member of the managing committee after 5 years from the date of his dismissal from membership.
(c) Before taking action under section (a) of this Article, the member shall be given the opportunity to speak in his defense.

Power of the Government and Members to Nominate Members

39.
Shares representing 50% or more of the paid-up capital of the Society may be purchased only by the government. If the government has purchased shares in this manner, the government has the authority to appoint one-third of the members of the managing committee of that Society. And if 50% of the total loans taken by the Society are loans issued by the government, or loans taken with a government guarantee, and if the total amount of loans taken in this manner is equal to or more than 50% of the paid-up capital of the Society, the government has the authority to appoint one-third of the members of the managing committee of that Society until the loan taken in this manner is fully repaid.

Address of the Society

40.
Every Society shall have a registered address. Documents and notices to be sent to the Society shall be sent to that address. If there is a change of address, the Registrar shall be notified in writing within 30 (thirty) days.

Availability of Information

41.
The following documents desired by a member or members of the Society shall be available for easy access or inspection at the registered address of the Society at all reasonable hours:
(a) A copy of this law.
(b) A copy of the regulations made under this law.
(c) A copy of the by-laws of the Society.
(d) The register of members.
(e) The audited financial statements for the past 5 (five) years.

Publication of Financial Statements

42.
The financial statements of the Society, certified as correct and signed by the Audit Officer, shall be published annually in accordance with the regulations.

Issuance of Loans to Non-Members

43.
Except in accordance with this law and the regulations made hereunder, the Society shall not issue money and loans to non-members.

Circumstances in Which Loans Cannot be Issued

44.
The Society shall not issue loans in the following circumstances:
(a) An amount exceeding the maximum or generally issuable amount as debt to members as determined by the managing committee of the Society.
(b) A loan issued after making movable property a security, except by a special resolution of the managing committee of the Society in accordance with the by-laws of the Society.

Provision of Information

45.
The owners and members of the Society shall provide the information required by the Registrar, Audit Officer, Arbitrator, Liquidator, or Inquirer regarding the transactions and administration of the Society.

Change of Name and its Consequences

46.
(a) The name of the Society may be changed by a resolution passed at a general meeting of the Society. If the name of the Society is changed in this manner, the Registrar shall be notified within 30 days.
(b) A change in the name of the Society shall not affect the rights and liabilities of the Society, its members, and former members. If a legal action has been initiated by the Society at the time of the name change, the action may be continued in the changed name without interruption.

Deduction of Money Owed to the Society from Members' Salaries

47.
If a member of the Society who is employed by the government or a private entity takes a loan or goods from the Society under an agreement made between the place of his employment and the Society, and if the agreement states that the money for that loan or goods will be paid from the salary or allowance received from his employment by guaranteeing the money and paying in installments from that money, the money for that loan or goods shall be directly received by the Society after deducting it from his salary or allowance.

Property and Funds of the Society

48.
(a) A reserve fund shall be opened and maintained from the profits earned by the Society from its business transactions.
(b) At least 25% of the net profit earned annually by the Society shall be deposited into the reserve fund. Of the money so deposited, a reserve of at least 2 years shall always be maintained in the fund.
(c) The money in the reserve fund shall not be used for the business of the Society except in circumstances and to the extent determined by the managing committee of the Society.
(d) Money in the reserve fund that is not used in the business of the Society shall be invested or deposited in accordance with the decision of the managing committee of the Society as prescribed in the regulations.

Distribution of Profit

49.
(a) Without prejudice to the provisions of (1) and (2) of section (b) of this Article, after depositing the amount required to be deposited into the reserve fund under Article 48(b) of this law from the net profit of that year, the remaining profit and any undistributed profit from previous years or a part thereof may be given as a bonus to the members and employees in a manner determined by the managing committee of the Society.
(b) Unless the managing committee of the Society decides otherwise, profit and bonus shall not be given in the following circumstances:
(1) Any money other than the profit certified by the Audit Officer as the actual profit in the annual accounts.
(2) The profit for any year in which the Audit Officer has stated in the annual accounts that any property or asset of the Society is not good or that there is doubt about that property or asset.

Voting by Members

50.
All members have the right to vote equally without discrimination among the members of the Society. Thus, each member shall have one vote, regardless of the number of shares purchased by the member.

Liability of Members for Debts

51.
Unless otherwise provided in the by-laws of the Society, a member shall not be liable for an amount greater than the face value of the shares he has purchased or has agreed to purchase.

Resignation from Membership

52.
If a member of the Society wishes to resign, he may resign from the membership of the Society in accordance with the by-laws of the Society.

Dismissal from Membership

53.
(a) If a member violates this law, a regulation made under this law, or the by-laws of the Society, or if a member acts against the interests of the Society, that member may be dismissed from membership by a two-thirds majority of the members present at a general meeting of the Society. A member may be dismissed from membership in this manner after the managing committee has notified the member in writing of the accusation against him at least 7 days before the meeting is held.
(b) The by-laws of the Society may state that a member may be dismissed from membership in a manner other than that stated in section (a) of this Article. However, a member may be dismissed only after giving the reason for the dismissal and giving that member a reasonable opportunity to speak in his own defense.

Audit

Audit of the Society's Accounts by the Registrar

54.
(a) The financial accounts of the Society shall be audited annually by a person acceptable to the Registrar.
(b) The cost of auditing under section (a) of this Article shall be borne by the Society.

Power of the Registrar to Prepare Accounts

55.
(a) If, when the financial accounts of the Society are being audited, the accounts have not been prepared to a standard that allows for auditing, the financial accounts of the Society may be prepared by a person acceptable to the Registrar.
(b) The cost of preparing the accounts under section (a) of this Article shall be borne by the Society.

Matters to be Examined During Audit

56.
(a) The following matters shall be examined during the audit:
(1) The amount and condition of cash and financial securities held by the Society.
(2) In addition to the party holding the money and the parties to whom money has been issued, the debts and balances of the parties indebted to the Society.
(3) Whether there is any long-overdue debt.
(4) The assets and liabilities of the Society.
(5) Whether the financial and other transactions of the Society have been conducted in accordance with the regulations.
(6) Whether the statements of accounts have been properly prepared.
(7) The manner in which profit has been determined.
(8) Matters that are stated in the regulations made under this law to be examined during the audit.
(9) Matters that are determined by another law to be examined when auditing such societies and associations.
(b) An audit statement prepared by the Registrar or a person acceptable to the Registrar is an enforceable decision on the Society.

Audit Report

57.
The statement of accounts and the audit report, submitted to and approved by the annual general meeting, shall be submitted by the Audit Officer to the Society and the Registrar within 30 (thirty) days of approval. The report shall include the following:
(1) Transactions carried out in contravention of the law, regulations, and the by-laws of the Society.
(2) The amount of money that should have been included in the account but was not.
(3) Losses incurred due to negligence or lack of due diligence, and matters requiring further investigation.
(4) If it appears that any party has fraudulently or dishonestly misappropriated property belonging to the Society.
(5) Matters that are stated in the regulations made under this law to be included in the audit report.
(6) Matters that the Audit Officer deems important to include in the audit report.

Rectifying Matters that Need Rectification

58.
Upon receipt of the Audit Officer's report, the amendments and changes that need to be made in connection with that report shall be made. The managing committee shall inform the Registrar of the amendments and changes so made within 30 (thirty) days.

Investigation and Dissolution of the Society

Investigation by the Registrar

59.
In the following circumstances, an investigation may be conducted into the accounts, documents, structure, work performed, and financial situation of the Society in a manner determined by the Registrar:
(1) If requested by at least half of the members of the managing committee.
(2) If requested by not less than thirty-three percent of the members of the Society.
(3) If the Registrar finds that there are reasonable grounds to conduct such an investigation.

Order to Dissolve the Society

60.
(a) The Registrar may issue an order to dissolve a Society in the following circumstances:
(1) If, after an investigation as in Article 59 of this law, the Registrar deems it appropriate to dissolve that Society.
(2) Upon written submission to the Registrar that the members of the Society have passed a resolution to dissolve the Society by a majority of members at a specially convened general meeting.
(3) If the main work, which is the objective of the Society, has not commenced within 1 year from the date of registration of the Society.
(4) If the main work, which is the objective of the Society, has been discontinued for 1 year.
(5) Non-compliance with the procedures and regulations laid down for registration.
(6) Under the authority vested in the Registrar in Article 13(c) of this law.
(b) An order made by the Registrar to dissolve a Society under this Article shall be enforced only after giving at least 1 month's time to appeal the matter to the court if dissatisfied with the order, and if the matter is not brought before the court within that period, or if the court does not accept the case.

Notification of Dissolution of the Society

61.
If the Registrar issues an order to dissolve a Society, a copy of the order shall be sent by the Registrar to that Society, its members, and its creditors, in accordance with a prescribed procedure.

Details of How the Debts of the Society will be Paid

62.
In dissolving a Society, the property and funds of that Society shall be used for the following purposes and in the following order:
(a) To pay the remuneration of the person appointed to dissolve the Society.
(b) To pay the debts of the Society.
(c) After paying the debts of the Society, to be distributed among the members in proportion to their shares.

Liquidator

Appointment of a Liquidator and the Powers Vested in Him

63.
(a) When the Registrar issues an order to dissolve a Society, a liquidator shall be appointed and his remuneration determined.
(b) A liquidator appointed under section (a) of this Article shall have the following powers:
(1) To bring under his control all property of the Society and books and other documents and records related to the business of the Society.
(2) To carry on the business of the Society in a beneficial manner in order to proceed with the dissolution of the Society.
(3) To determine the date by which parties to whom the Society owes money must submit their claims.
(4) To file cases that need to be filed on behalf of the Society and to take the necessary steps in connection therewith.
(5) To do what is necessary to recover the money due to the Society.
(6) To examine the cases filed against the Society and to take the available measures.
(7) To release the money requested by the Society for acquisition, taking into account the money and property in the Society.
(8) To seek amicable solutions in cases filed against the Society, after obtaining written permission from the Registrar.
(9) To announce a meeting of the members by giving a notice of not less than 7 days, in order to properly carry out the dissolution of the Society.
(10) To summon the persons and witnesses who need to be summoned at that time and to bring and examine the required documents in order to carry out the work of dissolving the Society.
(c) Parties dissatisfied with a decision made by the liquidator in accordance with section (a) of this Article shall submit the matter to the Registrar within 30 days from the date the decision was made.
(d) The liquidator shall hand over the property and money of the Society that is under or comes under the control of the liquidator to a party designated by the Registrar.
(e) The liquidator shall send a report on the progress of the dissolution of the Society to the Registrar once every 3 months. Upon completion of the dissolution of the Society, a full report shall be submitted to the Society and the Registrar. All books, documents, and accounts relating to the dissolution of the Society shall be handed over to the Registrar.

Investigation of Matters

64.
(a) If, during an investigation or inspection conducted under this law or while the work of dissolving the Society is in progress, it is believed that a person who has participated in the administration of the Society has committed the following, the matter shall be further investigated:
(1) Intentionally paying or authorizing the payment of the Society's money in a manner contrary to a regulation or a government order.
(2) Negligence in a manner that causes loss to the Society.
(3) Not adding the money that must necessarily be added to the account.
(4) An officer acquiring property for the Society improperly.
(b) If the Society has suffered a loss due to the action of an officer, the Registrar shall order that the compensation for that loss be paid to the Society.
(c) An order made by the Registrar under section (b) of this Article shall not absolve such an officer from any criminal liability he may have to bear.

Offences

65.
It is an offence to do the following:
(a) Not providing information that must be provided under this law to the party to whom it must be provided.
(b) A person who does not meet the criteria to be a member of the managing committee, becoming or attempting to become a member of the managing committee.
(c) A person who is not a member of the managing committee claiming to be a member of such a committee, or pretending to be such a person.
(d) Not doing an act required by this law.
(e) Doing an act for which the prior permission of the Registrar is required, without obtaining permission.

Considering a Violation of the Law

66.
(a) A violation of this law shall be considered to have occurred if a Society fails to do an act that it is required to do under this law and the regulations made hereunder, or if it fails to do an act that it is required to do within a certain period of time within that period, or if it disobeys an order made under an authority vested in the Registrar, or the Minister, or another party designated by either of them under this law.

Punishment

67.
(a) If an offence is committed under this law, the person or party shall be fined an amount not exceeding MVR 5,000/-, depending on the gravity of the offence.
(b) In addition to the punishment prescribed under section (a) of this Article, compensation for the loss incurred by the Society as a result of that offence shall be paid to the Society.

Definitions

68.
In this law, unless the context otherwise requires:
"By-laws" means the by-laws of a Society registered under this law, and any amendments thereto.
"Managing Committee" means the committee formed to administer the Society.
"Financial Year" means the period specified as the financial year of each Society in its by-laws.
"Regulation" means the regulations made under this law for the implementation of this law.
"Net Profit" means the profit remaining after deducting all expenses (including interest payable on loans, audit fees, and other expenses).
"Society" is used to refer to a "Cooperative Society."
"Secretary" means the secretary of the managing committee who maintains the secretariat of the general meetings and specially convened general meetings mentioned in Article 28(b)(3) of this law and elsewhere in this law.
"Audit Officer" means a person appointed by the Registrar to audit the financial accounts of the Society.
"Arbitrator" means a person appointed by the Registrar to resolve a dispute between a Society registered under this law and another party.
"Liquidator" means a person appointed by the Registrar under Article 63 of this law to carry out the work of dissolving a Society registered under this law.
"Inquirer" means a person appointed by the Registrar to obtain information regarding the transactions and administration of a Society registered under this law.
