Disaster Management Act

Chapter One
Introduction

1. Introduction and Name

(a) This is an Act to protect the territory of the Maldives, the Maldivian people, their homes and property, and the environment and built environment of the Maldives from natural and other risks and disasters; and because the territory of the Maldives and the Maldivian people are exposed to disaster risks, and because of the occurrence of risks, disasters, and emergencies, to work in advance to reduce the disaster risk to which the Maldives is exposed due to the aforementioned risks and the natural fragility of the Maldives before a disaster occurs; to prepare for and be safe from disasters; and to establish and state all necessary policies, principles, and standards to achieve the objectives stated in this Act.

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Disaster Management Act".

2. Objectives

The objectives of this Act are to achieve the following:

(a) To save the people from risks and disasters arising from natural and other causes;

(b) To establish the main principles for reducing the damage from disasters and for being prepared;

(c) To formulate a national platform for disaster risk reduction and preparedness, to identify the parties responsible for disaster risk management, and to determine their main responsibilities;

(d) To determine the manner in which disaster response will be planned and implemented and to establish procedures for providing and seeking assistance in the post-disaster recovery phase, and for coordinating matters related to this;

(e) To determine the role and responsibility of the decentralized administrative divisions of the Maldives in disaster risk reduction and management and in emergency situations arising from a disaster;

(f) To raise public awareness on how to act in matters of disaster risk reduction and management and in emergency situations arising from a disaster, and to establish and enforce principles to save the people from such dangers and to increase their resilience;

(g) To establish the principle of including the fundamentals of disaster risk reduction in national sustainable development projects;

(h) To make Maldivian citizens responsible and accountable in reducing the damage from disasters and in being prepared.

3. Fundamental Principles

This Act is based on upholding and maintaining the following principles:

(a) That disaster-related matters shall be managed in a manner consistent with the principles of Islam, in a way that protects human rights and human dignity, with justice and equality, within the framework of the Constitution of the Maldives, and in a manner consistent with the laws for the protection and preservation of the Maldivian environment.

(b) In managing a disaster, if the people are exposed to a disaster, giving the highest priority to and acting with speed in responding to that disaster and in recovering from it, and in coordinating the responsibilities of all parties assisting the government; and to provide assistance in a transparent and accountable manner, to have a spirit of cooperation, and to provide assistance with integrity.

Chapter Two
The Role and Rights of the State and the People

4. The Role of the State in Disaster Management

The role of the state in disaster management is described below:

(a) Under the responsibility of protecting the lives and property of the people, to reduce the damage from risks and disasters, to increase the capacity for recovery from disasters, and to create safe communities;

(b) To include the principles of disaster risk reduction in state policies;

(c) To use international standards of disaster risk reduction in sustainable development plans and projects;

(d) To identify the disaster risks that the Maldives may face and to increase the capacity for disaster risk reduction and preparedness at the national and island level;

(e) To involve all economic, social, and civil institutions and associations in the work of disaster risk reduction and preparedness;

(f) To carry out all necessary work to provide protection for persons or parties in distress due to a disaster, to respond to disasters, to provide relief assistance, and to return to a normal situation.

5. The Role and Rights of the People in Disaster Management

(a) The role and rights of the people in disaster management are described below:

(1) To be prepared for disasters;

(2) To comply with any order issued to move to a temporary safe place in the event of a disaster;

(3) To provide assistance to the extent of their ability to those in need of assistance during a disaster;

(4) To do everything possible to reduce the damage from the danger faced during and in the recovery from a disaster;

(5) To report the damages from disasters in a responsible manner;

(6) To participate in the planning and implementation of disaster management;

(7) To be provided with the necessary assistance to meet the essential needs of every citizen who is in distress due to a disaster.

(b) Every person who is in distress due to being in the Maldives at the time of a disaster shall receive the necessary assistance to meet their essential needs.

Chapter Three
Determining and Declaring a Disaster, and the Minimum Standard for Providing Relief

6. Determining a Disaster

(a) A situation shall be considered a disaster situation when, due to a situation faced by the sea area of the Maldives or an inhabited island or islands in the Maldives, a resort or resorts developed in the Maldives, an industrial island or islands among the islands of the Maldives, or any other inhabited area in the Maldives, major damage is caused to human life, or to property and homes, agricultural land, infrastructure, and the economy and environment, and the damage is so great that it cannot be overcome even with the people's own efforts and the use of available resources.

(b) In declaring a disaster, based on the proportion of people affected by the disaster, the magnitude of the disaster, and the size of the affected area, it may be declared as a national-level, regional-level, atoll-level, or island-level disaster.

7. Determining and Declaring a Disaster Situation

(a) The disaster situation shall be determined by the National Disaster Management Council established under this Act, with the advice of the National Disaster Management Authority established under this Act.

(b) The decision made by the National Disaster Management Council under subsection (a) of this section shall be announced by the Chairperson of the National Disaster Management Council or by another person designated by the Council.

(c) The decision announced under subsection (b) of this section shall be in effect for a period not exceeding 30 (thirty) days from the date of the announcement. And if it is necessary to extend the period, the period of the disaster situation may be extended for a period not exceeding 30 (thirty) days at a time.

8. Minimum Standard for Providing Relief

The minimum standard of relief to be provided by the state in responding to a disaster and in the recovery phase shall be stated in a regulation, or a principle, or a framework made under this Act. This standard shall be prepared by the National Disaster Management Authority established under this Act, with the advice of the relevant sectors.

Chapter Four
Responsibilities, Duties, and Powers

Part One
National Disaster Management Council

9. Establishment of the National Disaster Management Council

The President of the Republic shall establish a council by the name of the "National Disaster Management Council" within 30 (thirty) days from the date this Act comes into force.

10. Objective of the National Disaster Management Council

The main objective of the National Disaster Management Council is to make decisions and determine national policies regarding reducing the damage from disasters, preparedness, responding to disasters, and recovering from disasters.

11. Responsibilities of the National Disaster Management Council

The responsibilities of the Disaster Management Council are described below:

(a) To advise, guide, and pass such decisions in order to make the necessary decisions for managing disaster-related matters, in order to achieve the following:

(1) To protect the safety, health, and human rights of the people;

(2) To establish and strengthen relationships between the government, the people, businesses, and volunteer organizations at all levels, through a system where decisions are made after seeking the opinions of all relevant parties in all areas related to disaster management;

(3) To establish and strengthen relationships with government institutions and relevant international organizations;

(4) To protect the natural and built environment;

(5) To take the necessary steps in disaster risk reduction and disaster preparedness, and in the disaster response and recovery phases, and to create and increase the capacity of the people to withstand disasters.

(b) To be accountable for the work of the Council, to work in a transparent manner, and to be fair in the performance of the Council's work;

(c) To approve the regulations prepared by the National Disaster Management Authority;

(d) To approve and review the National Disaster Management Plan and the National Emergency Operations Plan;

(e) To submit the plans mentioned in subsection (d) of this section to the People's Majlis and other government agencies and to inform the public of the main principles of the plans;

(f) To declare a disaster situation;

(g) Following the declaration of a disaster, to involve government ministries, offices, councils, and state-owned enterprises to assist in the disaster response activities;

(h) To determine the policy for overcoming the impact that may be caused to the income-generating activities of the people due to disasters and risks;

(i) Following the declaration of a disaster, to decide to seek international assistance for disaster response and recovery.

12. Composition of the National Disaster Management Council

The National Disaster Management Council shall be composed of the following members:

(a) The President of the Republic;
(b) The Minister of the Ministry responsible for defense matters;
(c) The Minister of the Ministry responsible for internal affairs;
(d) The Minister of the Ministry responsible for foreign affairs;
(e) The Minister of the Ministry responsible for financial matters;
(f) The Minister of the Ministry responsible for the health sector;
(g) The Minister of the Ministry responsible for housing and built environment matters;
(h) The Minister of the Ministry responsible for environmental matters;
(i) The Chief Executive of the National Disaster Management Authority.

13. Chairperson of the National Disaster Management Council

The Chairperson of the National Disaster Management Council is the President of the Republic.

14. Vice Chairperson of the National Disaster Management Council

The Vice Chairperson of the National Disaster Management Council is a member appointed by the Chairperson from among the members of the Disaster Management Council.

15. Responsibilities of the Chairperson of the National Disaster Management Council

(a) It is the responsibility of the Chairperson to preside over the meetings of the Council, to encourage the Council to perform all the responsibilities assigned to the Council by this Act, to arrange the means for these things to be done, and to provide advice for managing disaster-related matters under the consultation of the members of the Council.

(b) In the event that the Chairperson is unable to attend a meeting of the Council for any reason, or in the event that the Chairperson is unable to perform his/her responsibilities, or in the event that the position becomes vacant, the responsibilities of that position shall be temporarily performed by the Vice Chairperson of the Council. In addition, he/she shall also perform the responsibilities assigned to the Vice Chairperson by the Chairperson.

(c) In the event that both the Chairperson and the Vice Chairperson of the Council are unable to attend a meeting of the Council for any reason, or are unable to perform their responsibilities, or are excused, or in the event that the position becomes vacant, the responsibilities of that position shall be temporarily performed by a member of the Council appointed by the Council in consultation with the Council.

16. Meetings of the National Disaster Management Council

Meetings of the National Disaster Management Council shall be held taking into account the disaster situation.

17. Procedure for Conducting Meetings

The Council shall make regulations on the procedure for conducting the meetings of the National Disaster Management Council.

18. Secretariat of the National Disaster Management Council

The administrative matters of the National Disaster Management Council shall be handled by the National Disaster Management Authority.

Part Two
Disaster Management Steering Committee

19. Establishment of the Disaster Management Steering Committee

(a) A committee by the name of the "Disaster Management Steering Committee" shall be formed by the National Disaster Management Council.

(b) The administrative management of the Disaster Management Steering Committee shall be handled by the National Disaster Management Authority.

20. Objectives of the Disaster Management Steering Committee

The objectives of the Disaster Management Steering Committee are described below:

(a) To coordinate all matters of preparedness, disaster response, and recovery from disasters that occur in the Maldives to reduce the damage caused by them;

(b) To monitor the progress of the policies formulated by the National Disaster Management Council and to provide technical assistance for matters advised to the National Disaster Management Authority;

(c) To monitor whether the responsibilities to be borne by various sectors in disaster management are being fulfilled and to provide technical assistance to the National Disaster Management Authority and the National Disaster Management Council regarding such matters.

21. Responsibilities of the Disaster Management Steering Committee

The responsibilities of the Disaster Management Steering Committee are described below:

(a) To provide assistance in the performance of the responsibilities of the National Disaster Management Authority, and to coordinate the implementation of the policies and plans formulated by the National Disaster Management Council in managing disaster-related matters in the Maldives and in carrying out related matters, and to be accountable to the National Disaster Management Council;

(b) To monitor whether government institutions and persons holding government positions comply with this Act and to monitor the implementation of the National Disaster Management Plan;

(c) To advise the National Disaster Management Authority on responding to disasters and providing assistance to those in distress;

(d) To coordinate matters of seeking humanitarian aid and items imported into the Maldives as relief aid;

(e) To coordinate all matters of disaster response and all matters of providing relief aid;

(f) To coordinate the work done for recovery from a disaster;

(g) To provide assistance to foreign countries in major disasters that they face, as determined by the National Disaster Management Council;

(h) To take the steps deemed necessary by the Disaster Management Steering Committee for the purpose of reducing the danger and damage of a disaster, and for preparedness and increasing capacity, in situations of disasters or where there is a threat of a disaster.

22. Composition of the Disaster Management Steering Committee

(a) The Disaster Management Steering Committee shall be composed of members appointed from the following sectors:

(1) The Chief Executive of the National Disaster Management Authority;
(2) The Deputy Chief Executive of the National Disaster Management Authority;
(3) The most senior administrative staff member at the National Disaster Management Authority;
(4) A member appointed by the Ministry of Health;
(5) A member appointed by the Ministry of Finance;
(6) A member appointed by the Ministry of Built Environment;
(7) A member appointed by the agency that manages meteorological matters;
(8) A member appointed by the Local Government Authority;
(9) A member appointed by the Maldives Police Service;
(10) A member appointed by the Maldives National Defense Force;
(11) Persons appointed by the Chairperson of the Disaster Management Steering Committee from various government agencies;
(12) A member appointed on behalf of the Maldivian Red Crescent;
(13) A member representing private business associations appointed by the Chairperson of the Disaster Management Steering Committee;
(14) Experts in the relevant field appointed by the Chairperson of the Disaster Management Steering Committee.

(b) The Chairperson of the Disaster Management Steering Committee may, if he/she deems it necessary, appoint members representing the public or private associations to the Disaster Management Steering Committee.

(c) The Chairperson of the Disaster Management Steering Committee is the person mentioned in subsection (a)(1) of this section.

(d) The Vice Chairperson of the Disaster Management Steering Committee is a member appointed by the Chairperson of the Committee from among the members of the Committee who belong to the government.

23. Meetings of the Disaster Management Steering Committee

(a) Meetings of the Disaster Management Steering Committee shall be held when a meeting is required, in a manner determined by the Chairperson of the Steering Committee.

(b) The meetings shall be chaired by the Chairperson of the Disaster Management Steering Committee.

(c) In the event that the Chairperson of the Disaster Management Steering Committee is unable to attend a meeting of the Disaster Management Steering Committee for any reason, or in the event that the Chairperson of the Disaster Management Steering Committee is unable to perform his/her responsibilities, or in the event that the position becomes vacant, the responsibilities of that position shall be temporarily performed by the Vice Chairperson of the Disaster Management Steering Committee. In addition, he/she shall also perform the responsibilities assigned to the Vice Chairperson of the Disaster Management Steering Committee by the Chairperson of the Disaster Management Steering Committee.

(d) In the event that both the Chairperson and the Vice Chairperson of the Committee mentioned in subsections (n) and (r) of Section 22 of this Act are excused from that duty, that responsibility shall be performed by a member appointed by the Committee in consultation with the Committee.

(e) The Disaster Management Steering Committee shall make regulations on the procedure for conducting the meetings of the Disaster Management Steering Committee.

24. Quorum of the Disaster Management Steering Committee

(a) A meeting of the National Disaster Management Steering Committee shall be held with the attendance of more than half of the members of the Committee.

(b) If it is considered essential to hold a meeting of the Steering Committee taking into account the emergency situation and time, a meeting of the Steering Committee may be held even if the quorum mentioned in subsection (a) of this section is not met.

25. Sub-Committees

(a) Sub-committees may be formed to advise the Disaster Management Steering Committee in the performance of its responsibilities in disaster preparedness, reducing the damage and danger from disasters, and in taking swift action.

(b) The chairpersons of the sub-committees formed as stated in subsection (a) of this section shall be appointed by the Disaster Management Steering Committee from among the members of the sub-committee.

(c) The Disaster Management Steering Committee may decide to temporarily include experts from the relevant field in a sub-committee to obtain the technical assistance needed by the sub-committees depending on the situation.

Part Three
National Disaster Management Authority

26. Establishment of the National Disaster Management Authority

(a) An authority by the name of the "National Disaster Management Authority" shall be established by the President of the Republic within 30 (thirty) days from the date this Act comes into force.

(b) The President of the Republic shall appoint a Chief Executive and a Deputy Chief Executive to work as the most senior officials of the National Disaster Management Authority.

(c) Except for the Chief Executive and the Deputy Chief Executive mentioned in subsection (b) of this section, the staff required by the National Disaster Management Authority are employees who are not included in the Civil Service, and are appointed under a regulation established by the National Disaster Management Authority.

(d) The National Disaster Management Authority shall function under the supervision of a Minister appointed for that purpose by the President of the Republic.

(e) Upon the establishment of the National Disaster Management Authority as stated in subsection (a) of this section, all property, resources, employees, and all their rights and obligations of the National Disaster Management Center that was in operation before this Act came into force, are transferred to the National Disaster Management Authority established under this Act.

27. Objective of the National Disaster Management Authority

The objective of the National Disaster Management Authority is to promote an integrated and coordinated system for disaster management, involving national, atoll, island, and government institutions, associations, private parties, private institutions, and other relevant parties, with special importance given to reducing the opportunity for a disaster to occur and to reducing the damage from it.

28. Powers and Responsibilities of the National Disaster Management Authority

The powers and responsibilities of the National Disaster Management Authority are described below:

(a) To work in cooperation with the relevant government agencies in disasters;

(b) To make regulations, principles, and plans related to disaster risk reduction in accordance with this Act;

(c) To act as the coordinating body in managing disaster-related matters;

(d) To specialize in issues and matters related to disaster management;

(e) To conduct research and collect and disseminate information related to disaster management;

(f) To act as an advisory body on matters related to disaster management to the following parties:

(1) State institutions, government ministries and offices, and their heads;
(2) Local councils established under the Decentralization Act of the Maldives;
(3) Associations and private institutions;
(4) Individuals.

(g) To advise the Disaster Management Council on the following matters:

(1) Laws related to this Act, the National Disaster Management Plan, the National Emergency Operations Plan, and other matters related to disaster management;
(2) Information regarding Disaster Management Committees and sectoral plans;
(3) To determine whether a disaster that has occurred is a disaster that has affected a specific island, a specific atoll, a specific region, or the nation.

(h) To provide technical assistance and guidance required for the formulation of sectoral disaster management plans by various sectors and the procedures to be followed by all government sectors;

(i) To formulate and implement the National Disaster Management Plan;

(j) To formulate and implement the National Emergency Operations Plan;

(k) To monitor whether various government institutions and persons in government positions are acting in accordance with this Act and the National Disaster Management Plan, and to advise the Disaster Management Steering Committee;

(l) To align the National Disaster Management Plan with the matters agreed upon in the regional and international strategies formulated for disaster risk reduction;

(m) To renew the National Disaster Management Plan every five years;

(n) To review the National Disaster Management Plan;

(o) To collect information related to risks in a normal situation and to disseminate information to raise public awareness;

(p) To coordinate the work of responding to national disasters and recovering from disasters;

(q) To take the necessary steps to increase the capacity of first responders during a disaster;

(r) To create awareness and familiarize the public with their role in reducing the damages from disasters and preparing for such events;

(s) To conduct research on the following matters with the assistance of government institutions, private parties, and regional and international organizations:

(1) To identify and reduce disaster risk;
(2) To identify the damages from disasters;
(3) Other matters related to disasters.

(t) To establish and maintain an updated database of essential items, human resources, health resources, food, transportation, and construction and communication resources for search, rescue, and assistance;

(u) To assist the leaders of cities, atolls, and islands in planning and carrying out their disaster management plans and programs and to provide the necessary technical assistance;

(v) To establish systems that provide international cooperation for reducing the damage from disasters and for managing related matters;

(w) To prepare a complete annual report and its copy each year, in accordance with the regulations, and to send it to the Disaster Management Council once a year at the specified time;

(x) To prepare the national framework for the formulation of plans for disaster risk reduction and preparedness at the island level;

(y) To establish a system for obtaining the latest information on risks from the meteorological department;

(z) To manage all matters of the Disaster Management Fund;

(aa) And also to do all things necessary to fulfill the responsibilities of the state under Section 4 of this Act.

29. Duties of the National Disaster Management Authority in a Disaster Situation

Upon the declaration of a disaster situation, the following shall be done by the National Disaster Management Authority:

(a) In a disaster situation, all matters of responding to the disaster and providing relief assistance shall be carried out by the Emergency Operations Center;

(b) To take all necessary steps as stated in the National Emergency Operations Plan;

(c) To provide information on all stages of disaster response to the Disaster Management Council and the Disaster Management Steering Committee when a disaster occurs;

(d) To obtain all available resources in the area or areas specified in the declaration in order to reduce the effects of the disaster and to provide that information to the Disaster Management Council and the Disaster Management Steering Committee when needed;

(e) To facilitate the use of any additional resource as soon as it becomes available, in accordance with the prescribed manner for the use of resources;

(f) To identify the damage sustained and to provide the latest information on the disaster to the Disaster Management Steering Committee;

(g) To identify the people and resources needed for disaster response, and to arrange and coordinate the use of people and resources;

(h) To monitor the situation and to issue a report on the assessment of the situation;

(i) To coordinate the work of rescuing people in distress and whose lives are in danger;

(j) To coordinate the burial arrangements for the bodies of those who die in the disaster;

(k) To coordinate the provision of temporary shelter;

(l) To coordinate the provision of relief assistance;

(m) To coordinate the process of obtaining the licenses required for relief work;

(n) To maintain information on the damage caused by the disaster, the assistance received, and the manner in which the assistance was provided;

(o) In responding to a disaster, to coordinate the work with various sectors and to maintain command of the work.

30. Responsibilities of the Chief Executive of the National Disaster Management Authority

The Chief Executive of the National Disaster Management Authority shall perform the following responsibilities:

(a) To carry out the matters stated in this Act as the responsibilities of the National Disaster Management Authority;

(b) To be accountable to the President of the Republic regarding the use of the power vested in the National Disaster Management Authority and the performance of its responsibilities;

(c) To make decisions with the consultation of the staff of the Disaster Management Authority in exercising the powers vested in the National Disaster Management Authority and in performing the responsibilities assigned to it.

31. Staff Assisting the National Disaster Management Authority

(a) A roster of trained officers, civil service employees, and volunteers who will be in a state of readiness to respond to a disaster, and a rotating duty schedule for volunteers with specified terms, shall be created.

(b) Any employee working as a civil service employee may, at the request of the National Disaster Management Authority and with the permission of the employee and the institution where the employee is employed, be temporarily released to work for the National Disaster Management Authority for a period determined by the National Disaster Management Authority. Working at the National Disaster Management Authority shall not be an obstacle to that employee in any matter. And the salary arrangements shall be continued by the institution where he/she was permanently employed.

Part Four
National Disaster Management Plan

32. National Disaster Management Plan

The National Disaster Management Plan is the main document that will shape the future of disaster management in the Maldives every 5 (five) years. This plan will include the steps to be taken in disaster management at the national and decentralized levels. The following are the main components that will be included in the National Disaster Management Plan:

(a) The steps to be taken by various sectors and councils to reduce the existing and potential disaster risks faced by the Maldives;

(b) The steps to be taken to reduce the chance of a disaster occurring in the development plans made at the decentralized level;

(c) The ways to act in a robust manner in the event of a disaster and the steps to be taken by various sectors and councils to prepare for such an event and to increase capacity;

(d) The roles and responsibilities of various ministries, agencies, and agencies in the stages of disaster management;

(e) The procedure for reporting on the implementation of the matters stated in the Disaster Management Plan by the sectors and councils.

33. Preparation, Renewal, and Review of the National Disaster Management Plan

(a) The National Disaster Management Plan shall be renewed every 5 (five) years.

(b) The National Disaster Management Plan shall be gazetted upon its renewal every 5 (five) years. And each time an amendment is made, the amended section shall be gazetted.

(c) The following matters shall be taken into account in reviewing and renewing the National Disaster Management Plan:

(1) The work done by various sectors and councils to reduce disaster risk;
(2) The work done by various sectors and councils to act in a robust manner in the event of a disaster and to prepare for such an event and to increase capacity;
(3) The studies conducted to identify the existing or potential disaster risks faced by the Maldives.

Part Five
The Role of Ministries and State-Owned Enterprises

34. The Role of Ministries and State-Owned Enterprises

Ministries and state-owned enterprises shall perform the following responsibilities:

(a) To work to reduce the chance of a disaster occurring, to reduce the damage from a disaster, to be prepared for a disaster, and to take the necessary steps to increase capacity, as specified in the Disaster Management Plan;

(b) To include and implement the principles of disaster risk reduction and preparedness in national development projects;

(c) In planning development projects, to identify the disaster risks that may arise from the project and to plan and implement development projects in a way that reduces the damages from disasters;

(d) To formulate a Sectoral Disaster Management Plan for disaster response, recovery, and disaster risk reduction, and to take the necessary steps for disaster preparedness, as specified in the National Disaster Management Plan;

(e) To act swiftly and robustly in every disaster in accordance with the guidance provided by the National Disaster Management Authority with the advice of the Disaster Management Council;

(f) To plan and implement activities in reducing the damage from disasters and in disaster response and recovery, with special attention to the vulnerable groups of the community;

(g) To include in the budget of that sector the funds required to carry out activities for reducing the damage from disasters and for being safe and prepared;

(h) To provide assistance to the National Disaster Management Authority and the councils established under Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act of the Maldives) in the following matters:

(1) To prepare plans for reducing the damage from disasters, for being prepared for disasters, and for responding to disasters, to increase capacity, to collect and identify information, and to manage disaster-related matters;
(2) To rescue people in the affected area and to provide assistance to those in distress due to the disaster;
(3) To assess the damage from disasters;
(4) To carry out the work of improving the situation and reconstruction.

(i) To facilitate the availability of resources to the National Disaster Management Authority in a way that includes the following, in order to respond swiftly to a potential or existing dangerous disaster:

(1) To provide emergency communication services in a disaster situation;
(2) To provide and transport the human resources and materials needed to provide assistance to the affected area;
(3) To evacuate people from the disaster-stricken area, rescue them, provide them with temporary shelter, and provide other immediate assistance;
(4) To establish temporary bridges and landing sites for airplanes or helicopters;
(5) To provide drinking water, basic necessities, health services, and other services in the disaster-stricken area;
(6) To assist in cleaning up the disaster-stricken area and in disposing of waste;
(7) To assist in the burial arrangements for those who die in a disaster.

(j) To carry out other necessary tasks in managing disaster-related matters;

(k) The ministry responsible for housing matters shall implement a building code that includes the concept of disaster risk reduction;

(l) The Ministry of Education shall include the concepts of disaster information, disaster risk reduction, and disaster preparedness and safety in the school curriculum and implement it;

(m) The Ministry of Education shall implement relevant policies and programs to make schools safe from disasters;

(n) The Ministry of Tourism shall create a disaster risk reduction and preparedness plan for all establishments in the tourism industry, familiarize the employees and tourists in those establishments with the plan, conduct drills, and make the necessary regulations for these matters;

(o) The Ministry of Tourism shall take the necessary steps to make all establishments in the tourism industry safe from disasters in terms of infrastructure and the built environment;

(p) The Ministry of Health shall take the necessary steps to make healthcare facilities safe from disasters in terms of infrastructure;

(q) The Ministry of Health shall take the necessary steps to prepare for and reduce the health risks that may arise from a disaster;

(r) The Ministry of Health shall develop the capacity needed to provide uninterrupted health services related to a disaster and shall prepare a health sector response plan and make arrangements;

(s) The Ministry of Health, in collaboration with relevant parties, shall provide the special health services that need to be provided in connection with a disaster;

(t) The customs authority shall make arrangements for the items brought into the Maldives by various parties for use in disaster response and recovery to be cleared through customs in a manner that does not impede the disaster response and recovery efforts. And the customs authority shall make a regulation stating this swift arrangement;

(u) The meteorological department shall maintain a multi-hazard early warning system that will obtain and maintain information about a potential disaster approaching the territory of the Maldives;

(v) Upon receiving information about a potential disaster approaching the territory of the Maldives, the meteorological department, in collaboration with the National Disaster Management Authority and other relevant institutions, shall provide that information to the general public under a specified procedure;

(w) The ministry with jurisdiction over foreigners shall provide the information and warnings announced to the general public in a disaster situation in the national languages of the countries to which a large number of foreigners residing in the Maldives belong, and in English;

(x) The Ministry of Tourism shall make a regulation on how to treat foreign tourists who are in the Maldives at the time of a disaster;

(y) The ministry with jurisdiction over foreigners shall make a regulation on how to treat foreigners who are not included among the foreigners mentioned in subsection (x) of this section at the time of a disaster;

(z) The ministry responsible for infrastructure and housing shall determine the policy for the repair and permanent housing of the citizens whose houses are damaged or destroyed in a disaster, and shall implement it with the advice of the National Disaster Management Council;

(aa) The authority that manages communications shall arrange for communication services to be used in a way that is helpful to the people in providing information from the time information is received about a potential disaster approaching the territory of the Maldives;

(bb) The institution with the jurisdiction to provide information shall make a regulation regarding the provision of true and correct information to the public at a uniform standard through the state's news and information dissemination channels and other news and information dissemination channels in a way that is helpful to the activities of disaster management;

(cc) The ministry with the relevant jurisdiction shall maintain a system for the people to obtain essential food items and water without difficulty in a disaster situation, under a policy determined by the Disaster Management Council.

Part Six
The Role of Councils, Clubs, Associations, Private Companies, Businesses, and International Organizations and their Branches Established in the Maldives

35. The Role of Councils

Councils shall do the following:

(a) To formulate and implement plans for disaster risk reduction, disaster response, and disaster preparedness in accordance with the National Disaster Plan;

(b) To include the principles of disaster risk reduction in the development projects of the councils operating under the decentralized system;

(c) To increase the capacity of city, atoll, and island councils for disaster risk reduction and preparedness;

(d) To include in the budgets of the councils the funds required to carry out activities for disaster risk reduction and safety and preparedness;

(e) In responding to a disaster, the councils shall exchange and disseminate information and inform the public of the steps to be taken under the multi-hazard early warning procedure;

(f) To provide assistance fairly and in accordance with the standards for providing assistance to those in distress in a disaster;

(g) To form disaster management committees at the city, atoll, and island level for disaster response and to determine the responsibilities of the responsible parties and the procedures to be followed;

(h) To make the city, atoll, and island level plans formulated for disaster risk reduction, disaster response, and disaster preparedness something that is prepared in accordance with the national framework for disaster risk reduction and preparedness at the community level;

(i) To carry out all matters of disaster response and recovery with the assistance of the relevant sectors;

(j) To manage the disaster situations that arise in their respective areas with the advice of the National Disaster Management Authority;

(k) To carry out the work of assessing the damage from disasters in the manner proposed by the National Disaster Management Authority;

(l) To secure and protect the rights of those in distress due to a disaster and those living in temporary shelters due to disasters in a transparent and fair manner in accordance with the standards communicated by the National Disaster Management Authority.

36. Definition of Councils

In Section 35 of this Act, a council refers to the city, atoll, and island councils established under Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act of the Maldives).

37. The Role of Clubs, Associations, Private Companies, and Businesses

Clubs, associations, and private companies or businesses shall do the following:

(a) To include the principles of disaster risk reduction and preparedness in their activities;

(b) In a disaster response and recovery situation, when the government requires it, to provide the resources of clubs, associations, and businesses for the use of the government to protect the lives and property of the people;

(c) To assist the relevant sectors on a voluntary basis in disaster response and recovery situations;

(d) Clubs, associations, and businesses shall participate in the disaster risk reduction and disaster preparedness programs conducted at the national and island level;

(e) The providers of communication services and news and information dissemination channels shall arrange for the use of communication services and news and information dissemination channels to provide information to the public in a helpful manner from the time information is received about a potential disaster approaching the territory of the Maldives.

38. The Role of International Organizations and their Branches Established in the Maldives

International organizations and their branches established in the Maldives shall do the following:

(a) To participate in the work of disaster risk reduction, disaster preparedness, disaster response, and recovery;

(b) To work with the permission of the government within the framework of the religion, culture, and social standards of the Maldives;

(c) To conduct projects related to disaster risk reduction and management in accordance with the National Disaster Management Plan;

(d) To conduct disaster response and recovery work in accordance with the National Emergency Operations Plan.

Part Seven
Disaster Management Committees

39. Disaster Management Committees of Cities, Atolls, and Inhabited Islands

(a) To carry out the tasks required under this Act, a Disaster Management Committee shall be formed in every city, atoll, and inhabited island of the Maldives.

Composition of the Committee

(b) The committees formed as stated in subsection (a) of this section shall be formed with the following members:

(1) The City Mayor in the case of a city council, and the council president in the case of an atoll or island council;
(2) If there is a branch of the Maldivian Red Crescent, a member to represent that branch;
(3) If a military or police center is established in the city, atoll, or island, a member from each such center;
(4) A member from the clubs and associations, or if the committee deems it necessary, more than one member;
(5) Members appointed from other agencies and institutions as seen fit by the committee.

(c) In the case of a city council, the chairperson of the committee established under this section shall be the City Mayor. And in the case of an atoll or island council, the council president.

(d) The vice chairperson of the committee established under this section is a member elected by the committee.

(e) The committee established under this section shall be formed by the city council in the case of a city. In the case of an atoll and an island, by the atoll or island council.

40. Responsibilities of the Disaster Management Committees

The responsibilities of the Disaster Management Committees mentioned in Section 39 of this Act are described below:

(a) To act as the body that monitors and coordinates the management of disaster-related matters at the city, atoll, and island level;

(b) To prepare a Disaster Management Plan and an Emergency Operations Plan for each city, atoll, and inhabited island, and to implement the plans with the permission of the National Disaster Management Authority;

(c) To prepare the Disaster Management Plan and the Emergency Operations Plan for cities, atolls, and islands in consultation with the relevant parties and in accordance with the National Disaster Management Plan and the National Emergency Operations Plan;

(d) In a situation of danger arising from a disaster or in a disaster situation, to coordinate the rescue of people at the city, atoll, or island level, to seek and provide assistance for the damage and difficulties caused by the disaster, and to coordinate the work of recovery from the disaster in accordance with national standards and the National Emergency Operations Plan;

(e) To increase public awareness and participation in their role in reducing the chance of a disaster occurring;

(f) To work to find solutions to the complaints and issues arising from a disaster;

(g) To participate in and provide assistance to the national programs conducted for the following:

(1) To formulate national and specific Disaster Management Plans for various sectors, atolls, and islands;
(2) To reduce the chance of disasters occurring and to manage disaster-related matters;
(3) To reduce the damage from disasters;
(4) To prepare for disasters;
(5) To respond to disasters;
(6) To carry out the work of responding to and recovering from disasters;
(7) To conduct research on disasters.

41. Communication

(a) The Chairperson of the Disaster Management Council may give written or verbal instructions on how to proceed with the work of the National Disaster Management Authority and the Disaster Management Steering Committee. Verbal instructions shall be sent in writing within a specified period. The instructions given in this manner shall be something that has been consulted and agreed upon with the other members of the Disaster Management Council.

(b) The Chief Executive or the Deputy Chief Executive of the National Disaster Management Authority may give written or verbal instructions on how to proceed with the work of the Disaster Management Committees. Verbal instructions shall be sent in writing within a specified period.

(c) The senior official of the Atoll Disaster Management Committee may give written or verbal instructions on how to proceed with the work of the island Disaster Management Committees. Verbal instructions shall be sent in writing within a specified period.

Part Eight
National Disaster Response Force

42. Establishment of the National Disaster Response Force

(a) A National Disaster Response Force shall be established by the National Disaster Management Authority to respond in a specialized manner to a potential disaster.

Composition of the National Disaster Response Force

(b) The National Disaster Response Force mentioned in subsection (a) of this section shall be composed of soldiers, police, emergency health service providers, the Maldivian Red Crescent, and other parties determined by the Disaster Management Council.

(c) The power of general administrative management and command over the National Disaster Response Force mentioned in subsection (a) of this section is vested in the Chairperson of the Disaster Management Council or a person appointed by the Chairperson.

(d) The role of the National Disaster Response Force shall be stated in the National Emergency Operations Plan made under this Act.

43. Taking the Lead in Responding

In natural disasters and other dangerous major incidents that occur in the Maldives, the military may be assigned to take the lead in rescuing the lives and property of the people, in cooperation with the relevant government authorities, as directed by the National Disaster Management Council and the National Disaster Management Authority.

44. Provision of Assistance by the National Disaster Response Force

In a situation where the military is assigned to take the lead in responding as mentioned in Section 43 of this Act, the National Disaster Response Force established under subsection (a) of Section 42 of this Act shall provide assistance to the military.

45. Powers and Responsibilities of the National Disaster Response Force

The powers and responsibilities of the National Disaster Response Force include the following:

(a) In a disaster, in a situation where an order to move people to a temporary safe place has not been issued and a person refuses and opposes it, to move that person from the disaster-prone area to a safe place without his/her consent;

(b) To identify the situations where it is necessary to move people to a safe place in a disaster situation and to coordinate all matters of moving the people to those places.

Chapter Five
Allocation of Funds and the Disaster Management Fund

46. Allocation of Funds

Funds required for the administrative work of the National Disaster Management Authority and the city, atoll, and island Disaster Management Committees and for the work proposed to be planned and implemented to reduce the damage from disasters shall be provided from the state's finances. This shall be done in accordance with the relevant laws.

47. Disaster Management Fund

(a) A fund by the name of the National Disaster Management Fund shall be established by the National Disaster Management Authority for use in a potential disaster.

(b) The fund mentioned in subsection (a) of this section shall be established with the inclusion of the following funds:

(1) Funds approved by the People's Majlis to be deposited into this fund;
(2) Money donated by individuals, associations, and organizations or institutions for the work of disaster management;
(3) Money donated to the state as aid in connection with a disaster;
(4) Money received from various activities conducted to increase the funds for this fund;
(5) Money obtained from selling any item received as free aid if it has to be disposed of because it cannot be used for any reason.

(c) An adequate amount of money shall be allocated from the state budget to this fund each year and deposited into the fund.

(d) Any money deposited into the Disaster Management Fund that is not spent at the end of the year is not money that will be deducted from the fund.

(e) In accordance with the relevant laws, the accounts of the Disaster Management Fund shall be maintained by the National Disaster Management Authority.

(f) The Ministry of Finance shall determine and arrange a procedure for spending the money in the National Disaster Management Fund in a way that is convenient and not difficult for the work that will take place in disaster response and recovery situations.

Chapter Six
Requesting Humanitarian Assistance and Determining Key Areas in Need of National Assistance in a Disaster Situation

48. Requesting Humanitarian Assistance

(a) The government may request humanitarian assistance in order to act in a robust and effective manner in a disaster situation.

(b) The Disaster Management Council has the discretion not to accept assistance that does not conform to Islam, Maldivian culture, and general social standards.

(c) The decision to request humanitarian assistance shall be made by the Disaster Management Council.

(d) Requests for international assistance shall be submitted on behalf of the government by the Ministry that handles foreign affairs, with the advice of the National Disaster Management Council. And requests for assistance to various parties in the Maldives shall be submitted by the National Disaster Management Authority with the advice of the National Disaster Management Council.

(e) The manner of requesting assistance, the information that must be included when submitting a request for assistance, the procedures for receiving assistance, and the standards to be accepted by the assisting organizations shall be determined by a regulation or principle authorized by this Act.

(f) Even if the government declares a disaster situation, assistance shall not be accepted until a request for humanitarian assistance has been submitted.

49. Determining Key Areas in Need of National Assistance

(a) The key areas in need of national assistance in disaster response and recovery situations and the priority of those areas, taking into account the situation, shall be determined by the Disaster Management Council with the advice of the Disaster Management Steering Committee.

(b) The work of all organizations and individuals carrying out all response and recovery work in the Maldives in a disaster situation shall fall within the areas determined under subsection (a) of this section.

(c) The work of organizations and individuals carrying out response and recovery work in a disaster situation shall be planned and implemented in the manner determined by the Disaster Management Steering Committee in that situation.

50. Accepting, Supervising, and Using Assistance

(a) A committee appointed by the National Disaster Management Council shall monitor whether the work done to provide assistance for the damage caused by a disaster is carried out in a fair, safe, and orderly manner, and whether the distribution of relief assistance is provided to those in need in a fair manner.

(b) In fulfilling the duties to be performed by the National Disaster Management Authority under this Act, the National Disaster Management Authority may, with the permission of the National Disaster Management Council, accept the assistance of international organizations, or governments, or private institutions, or a private business association, or a volunteer organization, or an individual accepted by the Maldivian government.

(c) As stated in subsection (b) of this section, the participation of international organizations or private institutions and associations in providing health services shall be coordinated and supervised by the ministry responsible for the health sector.

(d) As stated in subsection (b) of this section, the National Disaster Management Authority has the right to control and supervise the participation of private institutions or associations in the work of search and rescue.

Chapter Seven
Ordering the Disclosure of Information, Providing Information, and Using the Property and Belongings of the People

51. Dissemination of News and Information and the Role of Communication Services

(a) True and correct information shall be broadcasted on state television and radio during a disaster.

(b) The state's news and information dissemination channels shall cooperate in raising public awareness and disseminating information to the public in the work done to reduce the damage from disasters.

(c) The state television and radio shall be included as one of the communication channels used to provide disaster information and to give early warnings.

52. Ordering the Disclosure of Information

(a) The National Disaster Management Authority may, by a written notice, order ministries, government agencies, businesses registered in the Maldives, or clubs, associations, and organizations, and private individuals to provide the information required for the work of the National Disaster Management Authority within a period requested by the National Disaster Management Authority.

(b) In a situation where an order is given as stated in subsection (a) of this section, if any ministry or any government agency or person refuses to do so, the National Disaster Management Authority shall take the necessary steps to achieve that. In this regard, the National Disaster Management Authority may inform the People's Majlis that the requested matters were not fully provided.

53. Ordering the Provision of Resources

(a) If the National Disaster Management Authority or the city, atoll, or island Disaster Management Committees identify any of the following, that agency may request in writing or verbally for a resource, a place, a land, sea, or air vehicle. Verbal instructions shall be sent in writing within a specified period.

(1) The need to use a resource or resources in the possession of a person or group in a situation that requires immediate action;
(2) The need for a specific place for rescue operations or the belief that it may be needed.

(b) The period for which a resource, place, or vehicle is requested under this section shall not exceed the period of the disaster situation declared by the Disaster Management Council.

(c) In this section, the following terms are used with the following meanings:

(1) "Resource" refers to human resources, warehouses, tools, vehicles, and facilities.
(2) "Place" refers to any place such as land, a beach, or a shoreline, a building, a part of a building, or a part of any of these.
(3) "Land vehicle" refers to any vehicle used or that can be used for land transport, whether by the power of an engine or otherwise.
(4) "Sea vessel" refers to any vessel that can be operated by the power of an engine or by other means, suitable for sea travel, and travels on water.
(5) "Aircraft" refers to all types of flying vehicles.

54. Compensation

(a) If the National Disaster Management Authority or a Disaster Management Committee requests a resource, a place, or a vehicle and uses it, the owner of that resource, place, vehicle, or item shall be compensated in cash if he/she requests a payment for the period the item was used. The amount of compensation shall be determined after considering the following:

(1) The rent payable for that place, or if no rent is payable, the rent usually payable for similar places in that area;
(2) The price payable for renting a sea vessel, land vehicle, or aircraft at that time.

(b) For the purpose of providing assistance to those affected by a disaster, if a person suffers any harm to his/her life or body while providing assistance, compensation shall be given for the harm suffered. In this regard, the compensation may be arranged in the form of money, medical treatment, or in any other way.

(c) The National Disaster Management Authority shall formulate a regulation regarding the provision of compensation mentioned in subsection (b) of this section.

(d) Disputes arising in providing compensation under this section shall be resolved by submitting them to the relevant court of law.

55. Price Control

(a) In the areas where a disaster situation has been declared, the prices of the items needed to meet the basic needs determined by the Disaster Management Council shall not be changed in a way that increases the prices during the declared period.

(b) The President of the Republic may be advised by the Disaster Management Council to control the prices of items other than those needed for basic needs for a period not longer than the period for which the disaster situation has been declared. And the President of the Republic has the power to control prices in this manner.

Chapter Eight
Penalties

56. The Offense of Stopping, Refusing to Perform, or Neglecting a Duty Required by this Act

(a) If an employee to whom a task has been assigned under this Act stops performing that task without the permission of a superior or without any other legally acceptable excuse, or refuses to perform it, or is negligent in performing the task, that person is committing an offense.

(b) The penalty for the offense stated in subsection (a) of this section is a fine of between MVR 1,000 (one thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand), or imprisonment for a term of between 3 (three) months and 12 (twelve) months.

57. The Offense of Obtaining Aid by Providing False Information

(a) It is an offense to obtain relief assistance by providing false or incorrect information in a disaster response situation and to obtain any assistance for reconstruction work in a recovery situation.

(b) The penalty for the offense stated in subsection (a) of this section is a fine of between MVR 1,000 (one thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand), or imprisonment for a term of between 3 (three) months and 12 (twelve) months.

58. The Offense of Delaying the Sharing of Information

(a) The penalty for not sharing information with the National Disaster Management Authority or for deliberately delaying the provision of information without a legally acceptable excuse when requested to provide information required for the work of the National Disaster Management Authority is a fine of between MVR 1,000 (one thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand).

(b) The amount of the fine stated in subsection (a) of this section shall be determined by the National Disaster Management Authority, based on the magnitude of the act committed.

59. The Offense of Spreading News or Information in a Manner that Creates Fear

(a) It is an offense to present information or news about disasters through the news media in a way that creates fear among the public.

(b) The penalty for the offense stated in subsection (a) of this section is a fine of between MVR 1,000 (one thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand), or imprisonment for a term of between 3 (three) months and 6 (six) months.

60. The Offense of Obstruction

(a) The penalty for obstructing without reason a person authorized by the National Disaster Management Authority or the city, atoll, or island Disaster Management Committees, or an employee of any of those institutions, from performing a duty required to be performed under this Act, or for refusing to obey an order given by the government or on behalf of the government, is a fine of between MVR 1,000 (one thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand).

(b) The amount of the fine stated in subsection (a) of this section shall be determined by the National Disaster Management Authority, based on the magnitude of the act committed.

61. The Offense of Misusing Funds and Property

(a) It is an offense for the person to whom the funds or property designated for the work of providing assistance for the damage caused by an existing or potential disaster have been entrusted, to use that money or property or any part of it for personal use or to compel another person to use it.

(b) The penalty for the offense stated in subsection (a) of this section is a fine of between MVR 1,000 (one thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand), or imprisonment for a term of between 3 (three) months and 12 (twelve) months.

62. Penalties for Other Offenses

(a) Except for the offenses stated in this chapter, the penalty for any offense committed in violation of this Act is a fine of between MVR 1,000 (one thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand).

(b) The amount of the fine stated in subsection (a) of this section shall be determined by the National Disaster Management Authority, based on the magnitude of the act committed.

63. General Principles Regarding Criminal Offenses

(a) If the penalties stated in this Act for the criminal offenses stated in this chapter and the penalties prescribed for such offenses in Law No. 9/2014 (Penal Code of the Maldives) conflict, priority shall be given to the penalties stated in the Penal Code.

(b) If a criminal offense stated in this chapter is committed, the National Disaster Management Authority shall send the matter to the Maldives Police Service for investigation.

Chapter Nine
Other Matters

64. Occurrence of an Unforeseeable Event

In the event that the work of the committees cannot proceed due to the occurrence of an unforeseeable situation, the Chief Executive of the National Disaster Management Authority or the chairperson of the Disaster Management Committee of that city, atoll, or island has the power to order the necessary steps to be taken.

65. Making and Implementing Regulations

(a) Unless otherwise expressly stated in this Act, the regulations to be made under this Act shall be made and implemented by the National Disaster Management Authority. The regulations to be made concerning the National Disaster Management Council shall be made by the National Disaster Management Council.

(b) The regulations to be made for the implementation of this Act shall be made and implemented within 12 (twelve) months from the date this Act comes into force.

(c) If the National Disaster Management Council, the Disaster Management Steering Committee, the National Disaster Management Authority, or the city, atoll, or island Disaster Management Committee deems it necessary to make or amend any order, guidance, instruction, command, or scheme to prevent a disaster from occurring or to reduce the damage from a disaster, that body has the power to make or amend that order, guidance, instruction, command, or scheme in accordance with this Act.

66. Commencement of the Act

This Act shall come into force 6 (six) months after it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

67. Definitions

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms and phrases shall have the meanings given below:

(a) "Disaster" means a major incident that disrupts the normal life of a community or a group, causing damage to their human, material, and economic resources and the environment, in a way that cannot be borne using their own resources. Further details: In defining "disaster", three things are generally considered. They are the extent to which a community is exposed and open to a hazard, its vulnerability, and the extent to which it is unable to cope. The effects of a disaster include loss of life, injury, disease, physical, psychological, social, and other damages, and damage to property, public services, and the economy and environment.

(b) "Disaster risk" means the probability of damage to human life, economic activities, health matters, property, and services from a disaster that may occur to a particular community within a specific period.

(c) "Hazard" means an incident, substance, human activity, or condition that causes loss of life, injury, other health damages, damage to property, damage to livelihood or important services, interruption of social and economic activities, and environmental damage.

(d) "Disaster management" means the use of administrative decisions, organizational and operational skills, and capacity to implement policies and strategies to reduce the impact of natural and other disasters, and to increase the capacity of the community. This includes structural and non-structural measures to reduce the negative effects of danger, to prepare for it, and to prevent such effects from occurring.

(e) "Disaster risk reduction" means to work in a systematic way by studying the causes of disasters to reduce the chance of damage from disasters. This includes reducing the extent to which human property and life are exposed to danger and vulnerability, using the environment and land in an appropriate and good manner, and increasing the level of preparedness for disasters.

(f) "Recovery from disasters" means to restore the resources, income-generating activities, and living conditions within the communities affected by disasters to their previous state or to a better state.

(g) "Disaster response" means the services and assistance provided in an emergency to save lives, to assess the health situation, to ensure public safety, and to meet the basic needs of the people affected by a disaster when a disaster occurs.

(h) "Disaster preparedness" means the capacity and capability of the government, relevant organizations, and the community and the general public in terms of knowledge, skills, and expertise to take the necessary steps in advance to be best prepared for a potential or an ongoing disaster or other harmful incidents and to reduce the damage that may be caused by them.

(i) "The Council" means the "National Disaster Management Council" established under this Act.

(j) "The Chairperson" means the chairperson of the Disaster Management Council established under this Act.

(k) "The Authority" means the National Disaster Management Authority established under this Act.

(l) "The Committee" means the Disaster Management Committees established under this Act.

(m) "Humanitarian assistance" means the financial, material, and human assistance provided for response and relief in a disaster.
