Domestic Violence Prevention Act

Part One
Introduction and Name

Introduction and Name
1.
(a) This is an Act to establish the principles for stopping and prohibiting acts of domestic violence in the Maldives, to establish the principles for taking action against persons who commit acts of domestic violence, to establish the principles for protecting and assisting victims of domestic violence, to define the role of relevant state institutions, and to determine how one institution can work in collaboration with another.

(b) For the purposes of this Act, domestic violence refers to the commission of an act of violence, as specified in this Act, by one person against another person or persons within a domestic relationship.

(c) This Act shall be cited as the "Domestic Violence Prevention Act".

Part Two
Purpose

Purpose
2.
The purpose of this Act is to achieve the following main objectives.

(a) To establish that every act of domestic violence, regardless of the circumstance, manner, or status of the persons involved, is unequivocally an act contrary to the law.

(b) In the event an act of domestic violence occurs, to provide adequate safety and protection to the victim of that act.

(c) To provide justice for the victim of domestic violence in the most cost-effective, swiftest, and most convenient manner possible for them.

(d) To implement suitable programs to help the victim of domestic violence return to good health and a healthy life.

(e) To stop the acts of persons who commit domestic violence and to take all necessary measures to provide the assistance needed for such persons to reform.

(f) To make arrangements for the enforcement of court orders and orders issued by other state institutions with legal authority, for the purpose of stopping acts of domestic violence.

(g) To familiarize relevant state authorities with the special characteristics and matters related to acts of domestic violence, and to enhance their relevant capabilities.

(h) Recognizing that, as is generally the case, the first people to encounter victims of domestic violence are health and social service providers, and to establish the responsibilities of such providers in providing adequate assistance to persons suspected of having suffered domestic violence and in reporting such cases to the police.

(i) In addition to the criminal legal consequences that persons who commit domestic violence must bear under this Act and criminal laws, to introduce and arrange in a separate law the civil liabilities they must bear in relation to the act of domestic violence.

(j) To migrate the Maldives to international standards established in relation to stopping acts of domestic violence, and to formulate and enforce the relevant principles of justice on par with those standards.

Part Three
Glossary of Concepts

Domestic Relationship
3.
(a) "Domestic Relationship" refers to the relationships that exist between people in the following circumstances:
(1) Persons who are married or who were married and are now divorced.
2. Persons who happen to live together in the same house, or who have lived in such a manner until very recently.
(3) Being parents, or being a person who has undertaken the responsibility of raising a child as a guardian or caregiver.
(4) Persons connected by a familial relationship by lineage, close kinship, or marriage.
(5) Persons who live in the house to look after children or to assist with household work.
(6) Persons who have a personal relationship.

(b) In determining whether or not a personal relationship exists between two people, the court shall consider the following factors:
(1) The nature and type of the relationship.
(2) The degree to which the two people value the specific nature of the relationship.
(3) The amount of time spent together.
(4) The extent to which they share the matters of their lives.
(5) The nature of the place where they share time together.
(6) The duration of the relationship.

Act of Domestic Violence
4.
(a) For the purposes of this Act, an "Act of Domestic Violence" refers to an act committed by one person in a domestic relationship against another person or persons in that relationship, which causes harm to the safety, health, or well-being of the victim of domestic violence, or which creates a sense of fear that such harm may occur, encompassing any of the following acts:
(1) Committing physical abuse.
(2) Committing sexual abuse.
(3) Verbal assault and psychological abuse.
(4) Imposing financial or economic hardship.
(5) Impregnating the wife against her health, even if a medical doctor's advice has been received not to impregnate her before a certain period.
(6) Impregnating a woman against her will who is trying to leave an abusive marriage.
(7) Intentionally seizing a person's property in such a way that the owner cannot use it.
(8) Intimidation.
(9) Harassment.
(10) Stalking.
(11) Damaging property.
(12) In circumstances where they are not two people living in the same house, entering or remaining in the house where the victim of domestic violence lives, except with their express and clear permission.
(13) Any other act that could be considered an exertion of power over the victim of domestic violence or any other abusive act.
(14) Forcing a person to do something they would not want to do if they had their own free will, or something they would not do of their own free will, by coercion, intimidation, or use of force.
(15) Confining a person in a place against their will, or preventing their free movement from one place to another of their own volition, or preventing their travel and movement of their own free will.
(16) Attempting to commit, or attempting to carry out, or instilling in a person's mind the fear that any of the aforementioned types of acts may be committed.
(17) Intentionally showing or making a child hear the scene of an act of domestic violence, or taking or exposing a child to a situation where such an act can be seen or heard.

(b) For the purpose of this Act, in defining an act of abuse, a single act of abuse may be considered as such. Alternatively, if a series of acts committed in a particular pattern over a period of time, when viewed together, collectively exhibit the characteristics of abuse, then all those acts together may also be considered a single act of abuse.

Victim of Domestic Violence
5.
"Victim of Domestic Violence" refers to the person or persons who are the target of an act of domestic violence, where one person in a domestic relationship is committing, has committed, or is suspected of having committed an act of domestic violence against another person in the relationship or a child under that person's care.

Part Four
Legal Status of the Act

The Offence of Domestic Violence
6.
An act described as an act of domestic violence in this Act is an act for which measures can be taken under this Act, to which the principles of this Act apply, and which entails civil liability in situations where civil liability arises, and for which, if the act is a criminal offense, a criminal charge can be brought.

Application of this Act in Addition to Criminal Laws
7.
(a) The fact that an act described as an act of domestic violence in this Act receives a criminal penalty under another law that defines it as a criminal offense shall not be a barrier to taking the measures required under this Act.

(b) Even if a penalty is imposed under another law for an act of domestic violence that is defined as a criminal offense, if the person who committed the offense and the victim of the offense are two people connected by a domestic relationship, then in addition to the prosecution and sentencing for the criminal offense, the measures prescribed in this Act shall also be taken against the perpetrator and the victim, in accordance with this Act. And, the principles outlined in this Act concerning the perpetrator of the offense and the victim of the offense shall fully apply.

Part Five
Reporting

Reporting an Act of Domestic Violence
8.
(a) When it is believed that an act of domestic violence is occurring or has occurred, or when there is suspicion that such an act has occurred, the matter must be reported to the police.

(b) When it is believed that an act of domestic violence is occurring or has occurred, or when there is suspicion that such an act has occurred, the matter may be reported under subsection (a) of this Article by any of the following parties:
(1) The victim of the act.
(2) A person who witnesses the act occurring.
(3) A family member of the victim of the act.
(4) A friend of the victim of the act.
(5) The Authority or the Ministry.
(6) An employee of a health or social service provider.
(7) A relevant employee of a government agency working against domestic violence.
(8) An employee or member of a non-governmental organization registered and operating to work against domestic violence.
(9) If the victim of domestic violence is a child, the child's mother or father, or a guardian, or a relative, or the person responsible for the child's care.
(10) Any person who has information that an act of domestic violence is occurring.

(c) When reporting an act of domestic violence as described in subsection (a) of this Article, it can be reported by appearing at a police station and doing so verbally or in writing. Alternatively, it can be reported by calling a number or contacting an address designated for reporting issues at that station, via telephone, fax, or any other means of communication.

(d) When a person or entity mentioned in subsection (b) of this Article reports an act of domestic violence as described in subsection (a), they shall bear no legal liability for the consequences of merely making the report. And even if it is later proven that the reported act of domestic violence was not such an act, no lawsuit shall be brought against them if they reported it in good faith. And they shall not be made to face any situation where they must bear any legal liability.

Part Six
Role of Police, and Health and Social Service Providers

Responsibility to Report
9.
When a person is suspected of having become a victim of domestic violence, it is the responsibility of the health or social institution where it was noted to report the matter to the police and the Authority for their protection and safety. And it is the duty of that health or social institution to provide cooperation during the investigation and trial stages of the act in a manner that does not compromise the interests of the victim of domestic violence, and in a way that protects and maintains their interests.

Police Action on Reports
10.
Upon receiving a report of an act of domestic violence, the police must begin work without delay to investigate the matter and take the necessary related actions. Furthermore, detailed standards on how the police will act on such reports shall be formulated with reference to this Article and published as a regulation made by the police under this Act, within a maximum of 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act.

Responsibility to Provide Assistance
11.
Upon receiving a report of an act of domestic violence, and if the following matters are noted in the report, the police must go to the place where the act is suspected to have occurred:

(a) Information has been provided that an act of domestic violence is suspected to be occurring or has occurred.

(b) The circumstances indicate that an act of domestic violence is imminent.

(c) It has been stated that a protection order is in effect and that a violation of that order is imminent.

(d) It has been indicated that an act considered to be an act of domestic violence has previously occurred at that location.

Responsibility of Health Service Provider
12.
If the police bring a domestic violence case to the attention of a health service provider, or if a health service provider suspects in any way that such an act has occurred, the following actions must be taken by the health service provider who noted the matter:

(a) To examine the person suspected of being a victim of domestic violence to the highest degree possible.

(b) To provide advice to the victim of domestic violence on how to obtain further help.

(c) To provide assistance to the victim of domestic violence in obtaining psychological help or counseling.

(d) When examining a person who has become a victim of domestic violence, if physical or sexual abuse is suspected, to take the following actions:
(1) To examine them to the highest degree possible.
(2) To prepare a written report based on their examination.
(3) To submit the report prepared under sub-paragraph (2) of this subsection to the police and the Authority.

Responsibility of Social Service Center
13.
(a) If the police bring a domestic violence case to the attention of a social service provider, or if a social service provider suspects in any way that such an act has occurred, the following actions must be taken by the social service provider who noted the matter:
(1) To provide the victim of domestic violence with advice on various ways to get help, to provide assistance in obtaining psychological help or counseling, and to guide and assist in all matters related to the aforementioned issues.
(2) If the matter was not reported to the social service center by the police, to report it to the police.
(3) Upon a request from the police to send a social service provider to the scene of a domestic violence incident, to arrange for it and send a person to that location. And, in a situation where a person cannot be sent, to request the Authority to send a person. And, to inform the police that such a request has been made.

(b) The social service provider must explain in detail to the victim of domestic violence the rights and remedies available to them under this Act.

(c) As a means of assisting the victim of domestic violence, the social service provider must take them to a protection center, or to the home of a trusted relative or a trusted friend of the person who suffered the abuse. And, in coordination with the police, they must ensure that the protection order is being enforced.

Certain Actions to be Taken by the Police
14.
If a police officer is present at the scene of a domestic violence incident, or at the earliest opportunity for the police or a police officer to arrive at such a scene, or if a report of an act of domestic violence is received by the police, the police must take the following actions:

(a) To inform the Authority that a complaint of a domestic violence case has been received.

(b) To request a social service center or the Authority to send a social service provider to the scene of the domestic violence incident.

(c) Upon receiving a report of domestic violence, to go to the house or place where the incident occurred, even without a court order, and to clarify all relevant information.

(d) To determine if the victim of domestic violence requires medical treatment for any physical or psychological issue, and to take them to the nearest health care facility to their home and arrange for them to receive medical treatment. In this process, the police have the authority to order against any act that the police believe could lead to the loss of evidence.

(e) To find all parties related to the case, meet with them, obtain necessary information from them, obtain witness statements from those required, complete the investigation of the case, and for cases where it is believed a prosecution can be initiated, send them to the Prosecutor General requesting prosecution.

(f) If children are among the witnesses or victims of domestic violence, to obtain their testimony or take their statements in an environment suitable for them and in the presence of a social service provider.

(g) To compile true, complete details of the act that constituted the act of domestic violence.

(h) To explain in detail to the victim of domestic violence the rights and remedies available to them under this Act. This includes explaining the following in detail:
(1) The right to request the following types of court orders:
(aa) Protection Order;
(bb) Custody Order;
(cc) Court order regarding a place of residence;
(dd) Court order for financial compensation.
(2) That in situations where a criminal charge can be brought, such a charge may be brought.

(i) To prepare a report regarding the matter and send it to the Authority and the Court.

(j) If the victim of domestic violence has experienced something that requires them to be taken to a protection center, to take them to such a center at the police's expense.

(k) The police must provide the most appropriate protection necessary for the person who reported the act of domestic violence.

(l) If the person who committed the act of domestic violence needs to be arrested, to arrest them.

(m) To disclose to the media information about the offense committed by the person who committed the act of domestic violence and information about that person.

(n) If a person who committed an act of domestic violence is suspected of committing assault, physical abuse, rape, sexual harassment, murder, or any other criminal offense under the criminal laws during the commission of the domestic violence, to fully investigate the case to see if they should receive a criminal penalty under the Penal Code or a criminal law for the act of domestic violence they committed. And if it is believed that such a criminal penalty is warranted, to send the case to the Prosecutor General to bring a criminal charge against them.

Explaining Rights
15.
It is the responsibility of the police to explain the following matters in detail to the victim of domestic violence in a language they understand and in a way they can comprehend. And if deemed absolutely necessary, this information must be given in writing to the victim of domestic violence if they so request.

(a) Information regarding the police officer involved in investigating the case.

(b) That if medical treatment is needed as a result of the act, the police will arrange to take them to such a center at the Authority's expense.

(c) That if they need to be taken to a protection center as a result of the act, and if the service of such a center is available, the police will arrange to take them to such a center at the Authority's expense.

(d) That a court order can be requested to keep the person who committed the act of domestic violence away from interacting with the victim of the act.

(e) That the following can be prohibited in such an order:
(1) Committing any physical, sexual, or psychological abuse against the protected person.
(2) Threatening to commit any physical, sexual, or psychological abuse against the protected person.
(3) Damaging any property of the protected person, or threatening to cause such damage.
(4) Committing any act to intimidate, humiliate, or psychologically abuse the protected person, or threatening to commit such an act.
(5) The person to whom the protection order applies, causing any act to be done against the protected person that they are ordered not to do, even through another person.

(f) To explain what interim solutions can be arranged by the police if an act of domestic violence occurs during the night, on a weekend, or on a public holiday.

(g) That obtaining the help of a legal advocate is not mandatory when seeking a court order.

(h) That they can seek the court's assistance in requesting such an order.

Preparing the Domestic Violence Report
16.
(a) If the police investigate a case upon receiving a report of an act of domestic violence, a report related to that case must be prepared and sent to the Authority.

(b) The report mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be prepared to include the following details, in addition to any information the police wish to include.
(1) The relationship between the perpetrator of the domestic violence and the victim.
(2) Gender ratio.
(3) Educational level.
(4) Details of any employment held.
(5) Time the complaint was received.
(6) Date the complaint was received.
(7) The party that investigated the case.
(8) Whether a child or a person with disabilities is involved in the act of domestic violence; if so, the details of that child or person.
(9) Details of the act committed.
(10) The step taken to resolve the issue.
(11) If a protection order was issued, the date and details of that order.
(12) If a permanent protection order was issued, the date and details of that order.
(13) Other information necessary to indicate how, under what circumstances, and for what reason the act of domestic violence occurred.

Preparing the Annual Report
17.
(a) At the end of each calendar year, within the first 3 (three) months of the following year, the police must prepare an annual report on the domestic violence cases reported and the domestic violence cases investigated and concluded in the past year, and send it to the Authority and the Court.

(b) When preparing the annual report mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article, the following information shall be included.
(1) The number of cases reported.
(2) The number of cases reported by women.
(3) The number of cases reported by men.
(4) The number of reported cases that were investigated and concluded.
(5) The manner in which the police responded to resolve the matter upon receiving a report, and the average time taken for it.
(6) The measures taken by the police to resolve the case.
(7) Psychological, physical, and financial damages incurred.

Part Seven
Protection Order

Protection Order
18.
(a) A protection order is a legal order issued by the court, when an act of domestic violence occurs, with the intention of protecting the victim of the act from its recurrence, by instructing the person committing the act to do or not to do certain things.

(b) When the court believes there is a fear that an act of domestic violence may occur, a protection order may also be issued by the court to prevent such an act from happening, or with the intention of protecting a person from such an act.

(c) One of the most fundamental purposes of a protection order is to maintain the physical safety, psychological safety, health and well-being, and the protection of the rights of the person who has become a victim of domestic violence or is considered likely to become a victim of domestic violence.

Requesting a Protection Order
19.
(a) One of two people connected by a domestic relationship may apply to the court for an order to be issued against the other person in the relationship.

(b) If a child is requesting an order, it must be done through their parents or a guardian or a person responsible for their care, or a person mentioned in Article 8(b) of this Act. Or the child may also request such an order on their own.

(c) If a person with a disability or a person in need of special assistance is requesting an order, it must be done through their parents or a guardian or a person responsible for their care, or a person mentioned in Article 8(b) of this Act. Or, if they have the capacity to request such an order on their own, they may also do so.

(d) If the person requesting an order is not a child but is a person who is unable to do so themselves due to the circumstances mentioned in Article 23 of this Act, the request for the order shall be made through a person they designate.

Procedure When Requesting a Protection Order
20.
(a) Even if a child requests a protection order under this Act through a parent or a guardian or a person responsible for their care, or a person mentioned in Article 8(b) of this Act, no such application shall be interpreted in a way that denies the court the opportunity to hear their side of the story.

(b) When an application mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article has been submitted, if the court deems it necessary, the child may be brought before the court or a place designated by the court for the court's purpose, to hear what they wish to say in the matter. However, the child must be brought to court accompanied by an employee of a social service provider.

(c) It is within the court's discretion to consider the statement made by the child, based on the child's age and level of understanding.

Married Minors Requesting an Order
21.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act, if a child under 18 years of age who is married requests a protection order, they may request such an order on their own without going through a parent or a guardian or a person responsible for their care, or a person mentioned in Article 8(b) of this Act.

Persons with Disabilities Requesting an Order
22.
In the following circumstances, if persons in need of special assistance request a protection order, the request for the order shall be made through a parent or a guardian or a person responsible for their care, or a person mentioned in Article 8(b) of this Act:

(a) Due to a disability they possess; or

(b) Due to a lack of ability to consider their own well-being and benefit, and to make decisions necessary for their own well-being and benefit, or due to a lack of capacity to assess the nature and importance of such matters; or

(c) Even if they are aware of their own well-being and benefit, and even if they have the capacity to understand the consequences of their actions, due to a lack of capacity to express or communicate those matters to others.

Requesting an Order Through a Third Party
23.
(a) In the following special circumstances, persons may request a protection order in court through a third party, under a special procedure, under this Article:
(1) Being practically unable to do so due to their situation; or
(2) Experiencing some degree of fear in doing so; or
(3) Due to their situation, requesting such an order in their own name could be something that undermines the proper maintenance of their interests.

(b) Third parties mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article include the family, relatives, friends, and registered non-governmental organizations of the victim of domestic violence.

(c) If a person requests a protection order through a third party under subsection (a) of this Article, the court must arrange the opportunity for that third party to be accepted on their behalf, and to advocate for and represent them in court.

(d) If a person requests a protection order through a third party under subsection (a) of this Article, the court must ascertain the following:
(1) That they genuinely wish to request such an order.
(2) That the case has been submitted to the court and an order has been requested by the party they designated.
(3) That they have designated that person of their own free will.
(4) That the third party designated by them for the matter agrees to it.
(5) That there is no conflict of interest between the person requesting the order and the third party designated to represent them.

Power to Issue a Protection Order
24.
(a) The court has the power to issue a protection order if the following can be ascertained by the court:
(1) That the party to whom the order pertains has committed, is committing, or is likely to commit an act that is considered an act of domestic violence for the purpose of this Act.
(2) That issuing such an order is absolutely necessary to protect the interests of the party requesting the order, or a child of that party, or a family member of that party.

(b) The court may order the enforcement of the protection order through the most senior officer of the police office closest to the home where the victim of domestic violence resides.

(c) Upon reviewing the nature of the case, if the court sees fit, or if a party involved in the case requests it, the court proceedings conducted under this Act may be held as a closed session, not open to the public.

(d) Court orders issued under this Act shall be enforceable throughout the entire Maldives.

Existence of Another Lawsuit Not a Barrier to Issuing an Order
25.
The existence of a divorce lawsuit, a guardianship lawsuit, a child custody lawsuit, or any other lawsuit or criminal lawsuit arising from their relationship, concerning the person to whom the order pertains or the person who has requested the order, shall not, for that reason alone, be a cause that could hinder the issuance of a protection order under this Act.

Protecting a Person Other Than the Applicant
26.
(a) If the court issues a protection order as requested by the applicant, the applicant and their children shall be protected under that order.

(b) When issuing a protection order, the court may also order that the order be enforced to the extent absolutely necessary to maintain the safety of the applicant and a person connected to them by a domestic relationship.

Protection Order Pertaining to a Third Party
27.
When the court issues a protection order, if the person to whom the order pertains is not directly committing the act considered as domestic violence under this Act, but is causing it to be done by encouraging another person or through another person, the court may issue the protection order against that third party as well.

General Conditions of a Protection Order
28.
Even if not explicitly stated in a protection order, the person to whom a protection order pertains shall not commit any of the following acts:

(a) Committing any physical or sexual abuse against the protected person.

(b) Threatening to commit any physical or sexual abuse against the protected person.

(c) Damaging any property of the protected person, or threatening to cause such damage.

(d) Committing any act to intimidate, humiliate, or psychologically abuse the protected person, or threatening to commit such an act.

(e) Causing any act to be done against the protected person, which the person to whom the protection order pertains is ordered not to do, even through another person.

No-Contact Condition
29.
(a) In a situation where the protected person and the person to whom the protection order pertains live in the same house, except to that extent, the court may also require the person to whom the protection order pertains not to do the following things concerning the protected person:
(1) Obstructing entry to or exit from the house where a protected person lives, or their workplace, or place of employment, or place of education, or place they go to study, or any other place they commonly visit; or to cause them inconvenience during the times they enter those places, or to follow them to observe their movements.
(2) Stalking the protected person, going to places they go, stopping them, harassing them, and verbally assaulting them with insinuations.
(3) Entering or staying in a house where the protected person lives, or a place where they are, except with their express and clear permission.
(4) In the following situations, except to a reasonable extent for each situation, engaging in any communication of the following type with the protected person via telephone, letter, email, SMS, or any other means:
(aa) To the extent permitted under an agreement or order made for seeing, caring for, or visiting the protected person's child, under special conditions explicitly stated in the protection order, to that extent.
(bb) To the extent necessary to participate in a family meeting that must be attended, to that extent.

(b) If the protection order pertains to more than one party, the aforementioned conditions shall apply to each party to whom the order pertains, to that extent.

Additional Principles Regarding the No-Contact Condition
30.
(a) The prohibition of contact stipulated in Article 29(a) of this Act shall apply in situations other than when the protected person and the person to whom the protection order pertains are living in the same house with the clear permission of the protected person.

(b) As long as the protected person and the person to whom the protection order pertains are living in the same house with the clear permission of the protected person, the conditions established regarding no-contact shall remain suspended to that extent in that situation.

(c) If the protected person revokes the permission given for the person to whom the protection order pertains to live in the same house, the suspension of the no-contact conditions under this Article shall come to an end, and those conditions shall begin to apply in their full nature from that moment.

(d) For the purpose of this Article, the no-contact conditions may be suspended once or repeatedly. And they may be reinstated more than once.

(e) If there is more than one party to whom the protection order pertains, the principles stated in the aforementioned articles shall apply to each of them to the extent relevant to their situation.

Inclusion of Special Conditions
31.
(a) When the court issues a protection order, if the court believes it is necessary for the person to whom the order pertains to adhere to certain special conditions to protect the protected person or a child of that person, the court may impose the following conditions (and other conditions of this nature) on the person to whom the order pertains:
(1) A court order regarding a place of residence;
(2) A custody order; and/or
(3) A court order for financial compensation.

(b) A special condition under subsection (a) of this Article shall be established and its adherence made mandatory only to the extent necessary to protect the special interests of the protected party that need protection, if the court finds that such interests exist.

(c) If the court establishes a special condition in a protection order under subsection (a) of this Article, that special condition shall also remain in effect for the duration of the order. This is unless the court amends or revokes that condition.

(d) Except as provided in this Act, a victim of domestic violence shall not be isolated and removed from the shared home or a part of such a home. However, persons who are not related to them by family and are not legally entrusted with their care shall be exempt from this Article.

(e) In making a court order concerning a place of residence, the court may impose the following:
(1) The person who committed the act of domestic violence may be ordered to deposit a sum of money determined by the court to deter them from such acts. And if the court order concerning the place of residence is violated, the money thus deposited in court may be seized by the court.
(2) The court may order the most senior officer of the police office closest to the house where the victim of domestic violence lives to provide protection to the victim, or to assist in requesting a court order, or in enforcing that order.
(3) Considering the financial capacity and needs of both parties, the court may require that paying the rent of the house where the victim of domestic violence lives, or paying any other money due in connection with that house, is something the person who committed the act of domestic violence must do.

(f) Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, at any stage of the court proceedings when a protection order has been requested, if the court believes there is a risk of harm to the children of the victim of domestic violence or that their interests might be lost, the court may issue a temporary custody order, ordering that the children's custody be entrusted to the victim of domestic violence or the person requesting the custody order. And in making such an order, the right to visit the children may be granted to the person who committed the act of domestic violence. However, if the court believes that granting such a right of visitation to the person who committed the act of domestic violence may have a negative impact on the children, the court may prohibit the person who committed the act of domestic violence from visiting the children.

(g) In addition to other remedies provided to the victim of domestic violence under this Act, if the victim of domestic violence requests an order for financial compensation, the court may issue such an order.

(h) At any stage of any proceedings conducted under this Act, the court may order the Authority to arrange for the person who commits the act of domestic violence and the victim of domestic violence, either together or separately, to receive counseling.

Duration of a Protection Order
32.
(a) Except in cases where a protection order is issued as an emergency order, if a protection order is issued, it shall remain a valid legal order until revoked by the court. In this manner, a protection order shall be initially issued for a maximum period of 1 (one) year.

(b) The duration of a protection order may be extended by a decision of the court. The court will do this upon an application submitted to the court by the party to whom the order pertains or the party requesting it. The application to extend the duration must be submitted to the court 7 (seven) days before the expiry of the previously issued court order.

Varying a Protection Order
33.
Upon an application submitted to the court by the person who requested the protection order or the person to whom the order pertains, and if the court believes the application is sound, the court has the power to vary the order by any of the following means:

(a) Removing or changing a special condition.

(b) Adding a special condition.

(c) Varying the way in which a certain act is ordered to be done, or making it so that the act need not be done.

(d) Giving instructions for a certain matter in a specific way.

Duration and Revocation of a Protection Order
34.
(a) During the period a protection order is in effect after being issued, upon an application submitted to the court by the person who requested the order or the person to whom the order pertains, if the application is one that the court can accept, the protection order may be revoked by another order of the court.

(b) The court shall revoke an order as mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article if the court believes that the circumstances for the protection order to remain in effect have changed or have come to an end.

Violation of a Protection Order
35.
(a) A person who commits any of the following acts is committing a criminal offense.
(1) Violating a protection order.
(2) Failing to act in accordance with a condition stated in a protection order.
(3) Violating court orders related to the place of residence, custody orders, and/or court orders for financial compensation.
(4) Failing to do a certain thing in a certain way when ordered to do so through a protection order.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an offense mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a maximum of 6 (six) months, or a fine not exceeding 15,000/- (fifteen thousand) Rufiyaa.

(c) The penalty for a person who commits an offense mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article a second time is imprisonment for a maximum of 1 (one) year, or a fine not exceeding 30,000/- (thirty thousand) Rufiyaa.

(d) For each time a person commits an offense mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article a third time or more than three times, the penalty for each of those times is imprisonment for a maximum of 3 (three) years, or a fine not exceeding 50,000/- (fifty thousand) Rufiyaa.

(e) In addition to the criminal penalty received under subsection (a) of this Article, if the act of domestic violence is proven to be an act that includes assault, physical abuse, rape, sexual harassment, murder, or any other such criminal offense, this Act does not prevent the receipt of the criminal penalty due for that offense under another criminal law.

(f) Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, the principles of bail shall not apply to a person detained on suspicion of a matter deemed an offense under subsection (a) of this Article.

(g) Unless otherwise stated in this Act, investigation, prosecution, and trial shall be conducted in the manner prescribed in the law established for conducting the criminal justice system.

(h) Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, the court has the power to decide that a person who committed an act of domestic violence did so, under subsection (a) of this Article, based solely on the testimony of the victim of domestic violence.

Power of Arrest
36.
(a) Under this Act, the police have the power to do the following.
(1) If there are reasonable grounds for the police to believe that a person among those present at the scene of a domestic violence incident has committed an act of domestic violence, any person suspected of committing the act of domestic violence may be arrested by the police without obtaining permission through a court order.
(2) If there is reasonable evidence for the police to believe that a person to whom a protection order pertains has violated that order during its term, they may be arrested.

(b) In arresting a person under subsection (a) of this Article, the police shall consider the following:
(1) The harm that could come to the safety of the person protected under the protection order if that person is not arrested at that time.
(2) The severity of the act committed in violation of the protection order.
(3) The period that has passed since the violation of the protection order.
(4) The extent to which it is considered that the person to whom the protection order pertains may continue to commit acts against the protected person in violation of the protection order if they are not arrested.

Part Eight
Regarding Emergency Orders

Requesting an Emergency Protection Order
37.
(a) An emergency protection order is an order issued based solely on the testimony of the person submitting the case, without notifying the other party that the case has been submitted, unlike an order made after both persons involved in the case have been brought to court and their sides have been heard, before a protection order is made under the general principles stated in this Act.

(b) A protection order may be issued by the court as an emergency order in the special circumstances described in Article 39 of this Act.

Temporary Nature of an Emergency Order
38.
(a) An emergency protection order is a temporary order. It shall remain in effect, unless terminated, for a maximum period of 3 (three) months.

(b) If the order is not terminated within the 3 (three) month period mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article, or if no issue has been raised by the party to whom the order pertains regarding the order, it shall be converted into a permanent order upon the completion of the 3 (three) months.

Special Circumstances for Issuing an Emergency Order
39.
An emergency protection order under Article 37 of this Act shall be made if the court notes the existence of the following circumstances:

(a) It appears that making an order after hearing both parties would pose a danger to the party submitting the case in that situation.

(b) It appears to be a situation where the justice that the party submitting the case should receive may not be delivered.

(c) It appears to be a matter that could increase the danger to the party submitting the case.

(d) The party submitting the case is a person in difficult circumstances.

Matters to Consider Before Issuing an Emergency Order
40.
Before the court makes an emergency protection order, the court shall consider the following matters:

(a) The gravity of the case submitted by the party requesting the protection order and the dangerousness of the points involved.

(b) The harshness or dangerousness of the acts being committed by the party to whom the protection order pertains.

(c) The magnitude of the detriment to the interests of the party who requested the order, due to the acts being committed by the party to whom the protection order pertains.

Rights Afforded to the Party to Whom an Emergency Order Pertains
41.
(a) If the court makes an emergency protection order, the party to whom the order pertains shall have the following rights:
(1) To request in court for their side of the story to be heard before the order becomes a permanent order.
(2) To request in court to vary or revoke a condition or matter included in the order.
(3) To request for the order to be terminated.
(4) To notify their objection to the order.

(b) If the person to whom the order pertains submits a case to the court noting any of the matters mentioned in this Article, the court must hear the case under the normal procedure for cases, with both persons present or represented, before issuing any other order. And the court must decide on maintaining the previously made temporary order as is, varying it, or revoking it.

Holding a Court Session
42.
Before an emergency protection order becomes permanent, if the court believes that justice in the case can be best served after hearing the side of the person to whom the order pertains, or if the court believes it necessary after hearing the statements of both the party who requested the order and the party to whom the order pertains, with both present or represented in court, the court may hold such a court session.

Explaining the Consequences of the Order
43.
When making any order under this Act, if the person to whom the order pertains is present in court, the following matters shall be explained to that person by the court:

(a) The legal consequences that may arise if the order is violated.

(b) The procedure by which the order can be varied or amended.

Sending a Copy of the Order
44.
If any order is made by the court under this Act, the registrar of that court shall, on behalf of that court, send a copy of that order to the police and the Authority.

Appealing
45.
If any protection order is made under this Act, the party dissatisfied with the order, or if an order is not made, the party dissatisfied with that decision, has the opportunity to appeal to the High Court in accordance with the general principles of appeal.

Part Nine
Separation or Annulment

Separation (Tafreeq)
46.
Separation (Tafreeq), which is a special right granted to women in Islamic Sharia, is the termination of a marriage between two married people, based on reasons stated in Islamic Sharia, when the court ascertains that one of those reasons persists, thereby dissolving the marriage bond between the two people legally and bringing the marriage to an end.

Order of Separation (Tafreeq)
47.
A marriage can be separated (tafreeq) under this Act by an order of separation issued by the court. That order shall have the effect of a Sharia ruling.

Circumstances Permitting Separation (Tafreeq)
48.
Among the reasons for which separation (tafreeq) is permissible as established in Islamic Sharia, for the purposes of this Act, a marriage can be separated when the husband has committed an act of domestic violence against the wife, and the wife, who is the victim of domestic violence, has requested the court for a separation, if the court accepts the following:

(a) That the act is so severe or dangerous that it prevents the husband who committed the act of domestic violence and the wife who was the victim from establishing a peaceful life together.

(b) That the act is so severe or dangerous that the safety, health, and well-being of the wife who was the victim of domestic violence cannot be assured.

(c) That even after taking other measures stated in this Act, the relationship between the couple has reached a state that is more dangerous or worse than can be sustained, as a result of the act.

Consequence of Separation (Tafreeq)
49.
(a) If the court issues an order of separation for a marriage, the marriage will come to an end from the moment the order is issued. And, upon the separation of a marriage, the principles that apply in Islamic Sharia will begin to apply to the two people from that moment.

(b) For the purposes of Article 28 of Act No. 4/2000 (Family Act), the reasons stated in Article 48 of this Act shall be considered as reasons for which a marriage can be annulled under Islamic Sharia.

Part Ten
Implementation of the Law

The Party with Primary Responsibility
50.
(a) Excluding the responsibilities assigned to the Court and the police among the matters stated in this Act, the Minister shall bear the primary responsibility for implementing and enforcing the matters stated in this Act concerning the prevention of acts of domestic violence.

(b) Excluding the responsibilities assigned to the Court and the police among the matters stated in this Act, the Minister is granted under this Act all powers directly necessary to implement the matters stated in this Act concerning the prevention of acts of domestic violence, and all powers that facilitate the full implementation of those matters.

Some Decentralized Principles
51.
(a) To facilitate the fulfillment of the responsibility of enforcing this Act by Island Councils, Atoll Councils, and City Councils within their respective jurisdictions, and to provide legal authority for it, the Minister may, under this Act, designate each of them as the agent appointed for that area to enforce this Act in the area to which the council belongs.

(b) Any power, responsibility, or the duty of enforcing this Act shall be assigned by the Minister to an Island Council, an Atoll Council, or a City Council under subsection (a) of this Article only after providing the necessary resources to enforce that responsibility and power to that council, and after establishing a system for stopping acts of domestic violence for that council.

(c) The Minister's instructions and authority under this Act shall apply to the parties who carry out the responsibility of stopping acts of domestic violence at the level of Island Councils, Atoll Councils, and City Councils, and to the parties who work to increase public awareness to stop acts of domestic violence, and to the parties who work to save people from acts of domestic violence.

(d) If specific responsibilities are assigned at the level of an Island Council, an Atoll Council, or a City Council under this Act, it must be done in writing so that those powers or responsibilities are clearly known.

(e) The responsibilities assigned to Island Councils, Atoll Councils, and City Councils under this Act shall be detailed in a regulation made under this Act, publicly announced, and published in the Gazette. The Minister shall bear the responsibility for doing so.

Establishment of the Family Protection Authority
52.
(a) To stop acts of domestic violence, to raise public awareness about it, to provide necessary services to victims of domestic violence, to arrange ways for relevant institutions like the police and health service providers to work together, and to coordinate the work done by various parties in the Maldives to save people from acts of domestic violence and bring that work under a national policy and implement it, and to work at the forefront at a national level, a Family Protection Authority is hereby established by this Article of this Act.

(b) The Authority mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be run under the supervision of a board of 7 (seven) members appointed by the President of the Republic. On the advice of that board, the affairs of the Authority shall be managed and supervised by the Chief Executive Officer of the Authority.

(c) The Authority shall be answerable to the Minister. And the Minister's authority shall extend over the Authority.

(d) The persons appointed to the board of that Authority shall be capable individuals who can carry out constructive work in the effort to stop acts of domestic violence, in terms of education and experience, formed by giving priority to gender balance. And no person on that board shall be someone who has been convicted of a criminal offense or an offense of domestic violence, or who is under suspicion for such an offense.

(e) The Authority is empowered under this Act to carry out a duty that the Authority must perform, either by itself or through health centers, social centers, or civil society organizations under its supervision. However, the details of how to act in such a situation must be stated in a regulation made under this Act.

(f) In fulfilling the responsibilities assigned to the Authority under Article 53 of this Act, it is empowered to establish separate services.

Responsibilities of the Family Protection Authority
53.
The responsibilities of the Authority are stated below.

(a) To establish and implement the national policies that need to be established to stop acts of domestic violence.

(b) To determine the programs that need to be implemented to stop acts of domestic violence, to set the goals to be achieved by those programs, to establish standards for implementing those programs, and to establish rules for how those programs will be run.

(c) To determine how to implement the policy and programs for stopping acts of domestic violence with the participation of all relevant institutions.

(d) To require the Authority's centers located in the areas within the jurisdiction of the councils to adhere to the goals and principles stated in subsection (b) of this Article.

(e) To enter into agreements with parties in the Maldives and abroad to implement this Act and to stop acts of domestic violence, and to plan and implement programs in collaboration with such parties.

(f) To establish centers with adequate staff and resources to work on stopping acts of domestic violence and providing temporary protection to victims of domestic violence, to determine the services to be provided by those places, and to ensure that those services are provided sustainably from those places.

(g) To establish the standards and procedures that need to be introduced to increase the capacity to respond from all necessary angles when an act of domestic violence occurs, and to take the necessary steps regarding these matters.

(h) To conduct necessary research on the prevalence of domestic violence in the Maldives, the rate, cause, nature, and pattern of such acts, and on the measures that can be taken to stop such acts, to obtain the necessary statistics, and to publish the matters among them that need to be published.

(i) To establish and implement standards on how to treat victims of domestic violence, and the type, nature, proportion, and standards of social services to be provided to them.

(j) To build temporary protection centers needed to help victims of domestic violence return to a healthy life, to assist other parties running such centers, and to establish, and monitor the standards, rules, principles, and goals of such centers.

(k) To provide anger management therapy and counseling services to help those who commit acts of domestic violence to reform and return to a healthy life.

(l) To establish standards on how institutions that assist victims of domestic violence and all such service-providing institutions should conduct themselves, and the type, nature, proportion, and standards of social services to be provided to them.

(m) To establish the standards, principles, and code of conduct to be followed by the employees of the Authority, to investigate cases of those who violate the code, and to advise the Minister on the measures to be taken against them.

(n) To provide advice and information on matters of domestic violence to law and regulation-making bodies and policy-making bodies.

(o) To establish standards, rules, and principles for operating centers that provide temporary protection to victims of acts of domestic violence, and to assess the quality of services provided by such centers.

Employees
54.
(a) The positions of the Authority shall be determined, those positions created, the requirements for those positions established, the salaries and benefits for those positions determined, and people appointed to those positions in a manner determined by the board of the Authority.

(b) The employees of the Authority are not civil service employees. However, the employees of the Authority shall be a group that receives protection to the relevant extent as provided to civil service employees under Act No. 5/2007 (Maldives Civil Service Act).

Inclusion of Funds in the Budget
55.
(a) When the People's Majlis passes the state budget for the following year each year, an adequate amount of money needed to stop acts of domestic violence and to provide assistance to victims of domestic violence must be allocated and disbursed to the Authority and the police through that budget.

(b) When the People's Majlis passes the budget for the following year each year, money must be allocated and disbursed to the extent necessary to run the Authority, to enforce this Act, and for the Authority to carry out the work it must do under this Act in its most complete form.

(c) In allocating funds under subsection (b) of this Article, the People's Majlis must work to the widest extent possible to disburse the amount of money requested by the Authority and the police.

(d) The money disbursed under subsection (b) of this Article is money that must be disbursed separately from the money disbursed under subsection (a) of this Article.

Part Eleven
General Principles

Non-disclosure of Certain Details
56.
This Act does not permit the publication, public announcement, or disclosure to an irrelevant party of information concerning a person protected under a protection order issued under this Act, or information of a child of that person, except in accordance with a procedure determined by the court.

Obtaining and Disclosing Information
57.
To fulfill the duties that the Authority must perform under this Act, any institution in the Maldives must provide the necessary information to the Authority. And when the Authority requests such information, it is a duty that this Act imposes on that party to provide it.

Inspecting Records
58.
(a) To fulfill the duties of the Authority, if it becomes necessary to inspect any information or any record among the records maintained in a hospital or health center regarding a patient, that information or record must be released to the Authority.

(b) To fulfill the duties of the Authority, if it becomes necessary to inspect any information or record among the records maintained by the police regarding an act of domestic violence, that information or record must be released to the Authority.

Determining Matters to be Reported
59.
The matters that must be reported regarding an act of domestic violence and the persons who must report them shall be stated in a regulation made under this Act.

Giving False Information
60.
(a) A deliberately false answer shall not be given to a question asked under a power vested in the Authority by this Act. And one shall not lie while knowingly knowing the truth.

(b) A person who acts contrary to what is stated in subsection (a) of this Article is committing a criminal offense. The penalty for that offense is a fine not exceeding 15,000/- (fifteen thousand) Rufiyaa.

Obligation to Assist
61.
(a) When the Authority requests any assistance from the owner of a place where people live, in carrying out a duty that the Authority must perform to stop, reduce, or save citizens from an act of domestic violence under this Act, that assistance must be provided to that party.

(b) It is permissible to request the assistance of the police in connection with the work of the Authority. And if the assistance of the police is requested, that assistance must be provided by the police.

(c) No person shall do anything to obstruct or prevent the performance of any act which the Authority is empowered to do under this Act while it is being done within the scope of this Act.

(d) For the purpose of this Act, refusing entry into a place where people live without a court order shall not be considered as obstructing the work of the Authority.

General Offense
62.
In addition to the offenses for which a specific act or action is stated to be an offense and a penalty is prescribed in this Act, any act done in contravention of this Act, and any act done contrary to what is stated in this Act, and any matter done contrary to what is stated in this Act are also criminal offenses under this Act. The penalty for such an offense is a fine not exceeding 10,000/- (ten thousand) Rufiyaa.

Non-prosecution
63.
No lawsuit shall be brought against an employee of the Authority for an act that is required to be done under this Act or under a regulation made under this Act, if it is done in good faith for the enforcement of this Act or a regulation made under this Act. And, they shall not have to bear any legal or Sharia liability in connection with that matter.

Assistance of a Legal Advocate
64.
The assistance of a legal advocate may be sought in proceedings conducted under this Act. And if a person among the victims of domestic violence who lacks the means requests the assistance of a legal advocate, it is the responsibility of the state to provide them with the assistance of a legal advocate.

Costs
65.
If the court believes that a domestic violence case has been filed to harass or vex the respondent, or has been filed without reasonable cause or evidence, the court may order the person who filed the case to pay the costs incurred as a result of filing it.

Making and Implementing Regulations
66.
(a) Excluding the matters assigned to the police and the matters assigned to the Court under this Act, the regulations that need to be made regarding other matters shall be made and implemented by the Authority. Regulations related to matters assigned to the police shall be made by the police. Regulations related to matters assigned to the Court shall be made by the Court.

(b) The regulations mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be made and publicly announced within 12 (twelve) months from the date this Act comes into force.

Definitions
67.
Unless otherwise stated in this Act, the following phrases and words shall be defined as follows:

(a) "Protection order" refers to a court order issued under Article 18 of this Act.

(b) "Registered non-governmental organizations" refers to non-governmental organizations registered in accordance with the law, which operate on a voluntary basis for the purpose of protecting the interests of the victim of domestic violence and are registered with the Authority.

(c) "Reporting" refers to the act of notifying the police or the Authority under this Act when an act of domestic violence is suspected to have occurred, or when it is believed that such an act may occur, or when it is considered that such an act is imminent.

(d) "Verbal assault and psychological abuse" refers to acts aimed at deliberately damaging the honor of the victim of domestic violence or humiliating them. This includes the following:
(1) Repeated verbal assault, ridicule, or harassment by addressing them with names they dislike.
(2) Repeatedly threatening to commit an act that would cause emotional distress.
(3) Committing acts of jealousy in a way that severely and negatively affects the safety, freedom, and individuality of the victim of domestic violence.

(e) "Intimidation" refers to verbally threatening the victim of domestic violence or verbally threatening them in a way that creates fear in their heart.

(f) "Guardian" refers to the person who is legally or by Sharia responsible for the care of a child, a person, or a minor.

(g) "Minors" or "children" refers to a party among those stated as minors under Act No. 9/91 (Child Rights Protection Act).

(h) "Court" refers to the Criminal Court designated to hear the criminal offenses stated in Article 35 of this Act, and in all other cases, to the Family Court, or to Magistrate Courts that have the jurisdiction vested in those courts.

(i) "Family" refers to the following people inclusively:
(1) Persons connected by marriage;
(2) Children born to persons connected by marriage, either within that marriage or a previous marriage of one of them;
(3) Persons connected by blood and persons connected by marriage;
(4) Among a group of people living in the same house, if one person provides for and supports the others, the provider and the persons they support.

(j) "Shared home" refers to the home where the perpetrator of domestic violence and the victim of domestic violence are living or have lived at any time while connected by a domestic relationship. This includes homes owned by both of them, homes rented together or separately by one of them, and also homes that do not belong to them but belong to the family of the perpetrator of domestic violence.

(k) "Authority" refers to the Family Protection Authority established under Article 52 of this Act.

(l) "Minister" refers to the Minister responsible for the Family Protection Authority, or the Minister responsible for the work done at the national level to stop acts of domestic violence.

(m) "Imposing financial or economic hardship" refers to the following, inclusively:
(1) Without a reasonable cause, withholding from the victim of domestic violence something they are entitled to financially or economically, or something essential for their basic needs of living. This includes essential household items, and if rent is due for the house they live in, the money needed to pay that rent, or if the house is mortgaged, the money due to the mortgagee. or;
(2) Disposing of or destroying, without a reasonable cause, property in which the victim of domestic violence has an interest, or household goods or equipment.

(n) "Ministry" refers to the government ministry responsible for the work done at the national level to stop acts of domestic violence.

(o) "Damaging property" refers to intentionally damaging or destroying property belonging to the victim of domestic violence or property in which they have an interest.

(p) "Stalking" refers to repeatedly following the victim of domestic violence, going where they go, confronting them, and harassing them, inclusively.

(q) "Financial compensation" refers to the compensation awarded through a court order issued against the perpetrator of domestic violence under Article 31(a) of this Act, for the perpetrator to pay for the physical and psychological harm suffered by the victim due to the act of domestic violence they committed.

(r) "Court order regarding a place of residence" refers to an order issued by the court under Article 31(a) of this Act.
(1) An order by the court prohibiting the perpetrator of domestic violence from evicting the victim from the house they were living in, even if the victim has no legal or other ownership of such a house, or from doing things that cause them inconvenience, and things that make it difficult for them to live in that house;
(2) An order by the court instructing the perpetrator of domestic violence to leave the shared home;
(3) An order by the court prohibiting the perpetrator of domestic violence or their relatives from entering the part of the house where the victim of domestic violence lives;
(4) An order by the court prohibiting the perpetrator of domestic violence from transferring ownership of a shared home to another party, or selling it, or any other act that could diminish the ownership;
(5) An order by the court to stop the perpetrator of domestic violence from relinquishing their share in a shared home without the court's permission.

(s) "Domestic violence" refers to the acts described in Article 4(a) of this Act.

(t) "Perpetrator of domestic violence" refers to a person who has committed or is suspected of having committed an act of domestic violence against a person with whom they are or were previously in a domestic relationship.

(u) "Domestic relationship" refers to the relationship described in Article 3(a) of this Act.

(v) "Harassment" refers to behaving in a way that makes the victim of domestic violence feel fear that they might be harmed. This includes the following:
(1) Waiting outside or near the home where the victim of domestic violence lives, or their workplace or place of employment, or a place where they teach or study, or other places they commonly visit, and stalking them.
(2) Harassing the victim of domestic violence by calling them on the phone, either personally or through another person.
(3) Harassing the victim of domestic violence by repeatedly sending them items or messages via letter, telegram, parcel, fax, SMS, electronic mail, or other means.

(w) "Health service provider" refers to doctors, nurses, and health workers active in health centers to provide services to the public in inhabited islands.

(x) "Health center" refers to a center among the health centers designated and announced by the Authority for the purposes stated in this Act.

(y) "Program" refers to projects, initiatives, treatment phases, and various activities conducted to stop acts of domestic violence, inclusively.

(z) "Sexual abuse" refers to abuse that negatively affects the sexual well-being of the victim of domestic violence, humiliation, and other such acts.

(aa) "Physical abuse" refers to committing any act of physical abuse against the victim of domestic violence or threatening that such an act might be committed.

(bb) "Chief Executive Officer" refers to the most senior administrative employee responsible for implementing the decisions of the Authority's board and managing the day-to-day operations of the Authority.

Commencement of the Act
68.
This Act shall come into force from the date it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.
