
**DRUGS ACT (LAW NO. 17/2011)**

**PART ONE**

**PRELIMINARY**

**CHAPTER ONE**

**INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTS**

**Introduction and Title**

1. 

(a) This is an Act to prevent the use, peddling, and trafficking of narcotic drugs in the Maldives; to encourage and compel persons addicted to narcotic drugs to undergo special treatment programs to reduce or eliminate their dependency on such drugs; to provide them with the opportunity to participate in society as responsible citizens; to determine the offenses and penalties related to narcotic drugs; and to establish other related principles. 

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Drugs Act".

**Objects**

2. 

The main object of this Act is to achieve the following:

(a) To work towards reducing the dependency of persons who use narcotic drugs. 

(b) To identify persons who are newly addicted to narcotic drugs from that point onwards and to work towards finding ways for them to quickly move away from it.

(c) As persons addicted to narcotic drugs are, due to their continued use of such drugs, psychologically or physically dependent on their effects and have become reliant on them, instead of viewing them solely as criminals, to accept them as persons in need of treatment and to establish a robust system for providing them with treatment.

(d) To prevent persons who peddle narcotic drugs from dealing in such drugs to sustain their own dependency, and to reduce the rate at which they commit crimes due to their addiction.

(e) To identify persons who traffic in narcotic drugs, to create obstacles to the business of trafficking, to obstruct the methods used by traffickers, and to take various measures that directly target them, in order to stop the trafficking of narcotic drugs.

(f) To establish a special court to hear cases of offenses committed by persons addicted to narcotic drugs, to compel such persons to participate in special treatment programs to reduce or eliminate their dependency, to make treatment mandatory, and to expand the opportunity for them to participate in society as responsible citizens.

(g) To grant special powers to law enforcement agencies to reduce the number of persons who use narcotic drugs in the Maldives and to stop the trafficking of narcotic drugs.

(h) To determine the offenses and penalties related to narcotic drugs.

**Glossary**

3. 

(a) The main concepts upon which this Act is based are set out in Chapter Two of this Act.

(b) The meanings of the main words and phrases contained in this Act are set out in Article 190 of this Act.

**CHAPTER TWO**

**GLOSSARY OF CONCEPTS**

**Basis of the Concepts**

4. 

The concepts set out in this Act are set out in this Chapter in order to preserve the essence of this Act and to facilitate the achievement of the objects of this Act in their broadest sense. Every Article of this Act shall be read in a manner that does not restrict these concepts.

**Rehabilitation Order**

5. 

"Rehabilitation Order" refers to an order made by the Drug Court, directing a person who falls within its jurisdiction to participate in and complete a treatment program proposed in an Indicative Assessment.

**Indicative Assessment**

6. 

"Indicative Assessment" refers to an assessment conducted at the direction of the Drug Court to determine the extent of a defendant's addiction to narcotic drugs and the treatment required; an assessment conducted by the National Drug Agency or a treatment center to determine the extent of addiction of a person who voluntarily seeks treatment and the treatment required; and an assessment conducted by the National Drug Agency or a treatment center to determine the extent of addiction of a person convicted by a court for using narcotic drugs and the treatment required.

**Narcotic Drugs**

7. 

"Narcotic Drugs" refers to any substance or material specified in Schedule 1 as prohibited narcotic drugs, and any substance containing such a substance or material, and any substance specified in Schedule 2 as narcotic drugs used for medicinal purposes, and any substance containing such a substance.

**Use of Narcotic Drugs**

8. 

"Use of Narcotic Drugs" refers to the introduction or causing the introduction of any amount of a narcotic substance into a person's body.

**Possession of a Narcotic Substance**

9. 

"Possession of a Narcotic Substance" includes the physical possession of a narcotic substance on a person's person or body, and the presence of a narcotic substance in a place or thing under a person's control.

**Dealing in Narcotic Drugs**

10. 

"Dealing in Narcotic Drugs" includes the sale, giving, transporting from one place to another for the purpose of trade, arranging for transport, delivery, and offering or agreeing to do any of the foregoing.

**Person Addicted to Narcotic Drugs**

11. 

"Person Addicted to Narcotic Drugs" refers to a person who, due to the continuous use of a narcotic substance, has become dependent on it to the extent that they cannot live without it, or a person who is psychologically or physically inclined towards its effects and has become reliant on it.

**First Judgment**

12. 

"First Judgment" refers to the judgment made by the Drug Court after hearing a case filed against a person within its jurisdiction, confirming their confession to the offense or offenses with which they are charged, and finding them guilty of the offense or offenses.

**Subsequent Judgment**

13. 

"Subsequent Judgment" refers to the judgment made by the court to determine the outcome for a person who has participated in and completed a treatment program of the Drug Court upon their completion of the program.

**Treatment Center**

14. 

"Treatment Center" refers to Detoxification Centers, Drug Treatment and Rehabilitation Centers, Drug Treatment and Rehabilitation Centers specifically for children and women, Halfway Houses, Drug Offender Remand Centers, and other treatment centers that the National Drug Agency is required to establish under this Act for the treatment of persons who use narcotic drugs, or that the Agency authorizes to be established.

**Drug Court**

15. 

"Drug Court" refers to the special court established to hear cases of offenses committed by persons addicted to narcotic drugs, to compel such persons to participate in special treatment programs to reduce or eliminate their dependency, to make treatment mandatory, and to expand the opportunity for them to participate in society as responsible citizens.

**Drug Dependency Assessment**

16. 

"Drug Dependency Assessment" refers to an assessment conducted at the direction of the Prosecutor General to determine the extent of a defendant's addiction to narcotic drugs.

**Trafficking**

17. 

"Trafficking" refers to a person who is not a peddler dealing in narcotic drugs in a manner that fulfills one of the conditions set out in Article 144 of this Act, or a person who is a peddler dealing in narcotic drugs in a manner that fulfills two of the conditions set out in Article 144 of this Act.

**Trafficker**

18. 

"Trafficker" refers to a person who deals in narcotic drugs while committing an act specified in this Act as an act that would be considered trafficking, or a person who, while being a peddler, commits two of the acts specified in this Act as acts that would be considered trafficking.

**Peddling**

19. 

"Peddling" refers to a person addicted to narcotic drugs dealing in such drugs in order to sustain their own dependency.

**Peddler**

20. 

"Peddler" refers to a person addicted to narcotic drugs who deals in such drugs.

**PART TWO**

**ESTABLISHMENT OF INSTITUTIONS**

**CHAPTER THREE**

**NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL COUNCIL**

**Establishment of the National Drug Control Council**

21. 

(a) The President shall, within 30 (thirty) days of the commencement of this Act, establish a Council by the name of "National Drug Control Council".

(b) The National Drug Control Council is the body that advises the President on policies related to stopping the trafficking of narcotic drugs in the Maldives, stopping the use of narcotic drugs, and providing treatment to persons who use narcotic drugs.

**Objects of the Council**

22. 

The objects of the National Drug Control Council are set out below.

(a) To assist the President in formulating the main policies on narcotic drugs.

(b) To advise the President on the principles to be followed and the steps to be taken with the highest priority in the Maldives with regard to stopping the use of narcotic drugs.

(c) To advise the President on the implementation of programs to stop the use of narcotic drugs in the country and the changes that need to be brought to such programs.

(d) To inform the President of crimes related to narcotic drugs, acts of violence committed in connection with the use of narcotic drugs, and health problems arising from the use of narcotic drugs, and to advise the President on the national policies that need to be introduced to combat these issues and the changes that need to be brought to existing policies.

(e) To advise the President on the measures to be taken at different times and in different situations to find a solution to the problem of the use, peddling, and trafficking of narcotic drugs.

(f) To advise the President on the directives to be given to government agencies to ensure that all relevant government agencies work together with a single focus at the whole-of-government level in the fight against narcotic drugs.

(g) To find, review, study, and assess the measures being taken at the international and national levels against narcotic drugs, and the opportunities and solutions available to combat narcotic drugs, and to advise the President on the most suitable solutions for the Maldives.

(h) To monitor the extent to which the main policies and targets set by the President in the fight against narcotic drugs are being achieved, to find out, review, and study the work being done by government agencies to implement those policies, and to keep the President informed.

(i) To identify the assistance that needs to be sought from various parties to save the nation from the scourge of narcotic drugs and to work towards seeking such assistance.

**Composition of the Council**

23. 

(a) The National Drug Control Council shall be composed of the following 12 (twelve) members.

(1) Vice President of the Republic;

(2) Minister of Home Affairs;

(3) A representative of the Ministry of Education;

(4) A representative of the Ministry of Health;

(5) A representative of the Ministry of Youth and Sports;

(6) A representative of the Ministry of Islamic Affairs;

(7) A representative of the Attorney General's Office;

(8) Commissioner General of Customs;

(9) Controller of Immigration and Emigration;

(10) Chief of Defence Force;

(11) Commissioner of Police;

(12) Prosecutor General.

(b) The representatives referred to in sub-paragraphs (3), (4), (5), (6), and (7) of paragraph (a) of this Article shall be persons appointed by the President from among those holding the rank of Minister of State or Deputy Minister of that Ministry.

**President of the Council**

24. 

The President of the National Drug Control Council is the Vice President of the Republic. In the event that the President of the Council is unable to perform a duty that the President of the Council is required to perform, the President of the Council shall assign that duty to a member of the Council.

**Powers of the Council**

25. 

The National Drug Control Council has the power to do what is necessary to achieve the objects of the Council as set out in Article 22 of this Act, in accordance with this Act.

**CHAPTER FOUR**

**NATIONAL DRUG AGENCY**

**Establishment of the National Drug Agency**

26. 

(a) The President shall, within 30 (thirty) days of the commencement of this Act, establish a government agency by the name of "National Drug Agency".

(b) The National Drug Agency is the main body that implements the policies determined by the President on the advice and consultation of the National Drug Control Council, in relation to this Act and the main policies connected to this Act.

**Responsibilities of the National Drug Agency**

27. 

The following responsibilities are entrusted to the National Drug Agency under this Act.

(a) To take the necessary measures at different times and in different situations to find a solution to the problem of the use, peddling, and trafficking of narcotic drugs.

(b) To identify crimes related to narcotic drugs, acts of violence committed in connection with the use of narcotic drugs, and health problems arising from the use of narcotic drugs, and to implement the national policies introduced to combat these issues.

(c) To monitor whether the policies determined by the government with regard to stopping the use of narcotic drugs are being implemented by government agencies.

(d) To monitor the implementation of various programs to stop the use of narcotic drugs and to coordinate the work of all relevant agencies.

(e) To provide treatment to persons who use narcotic drugs, to rehabilitate them, and to work towards their reintegration into society.

(f) To seek the cooperation of private parties in the work to be done to stop the use of narcotic drugs, and to provide the necessary assistance and advice to the work done by private parties, and to work in collaboration with them.

(g) To work in collaboration with all relevant agencies to increase awareness among all parties in society in the work to be done to stop the use of narcotic drugs.

(h) To conduct various programs in the Maldives in collaboration with foreign agencies related to narcotic drugs, to share information, and to work towards obtaining benefits, advantages, and assistance for the Maldives from their information and experience.

**Administration of the National Drug Agency**

28. 

(a) The National Drug Agency shall be administered by a Chief Executive Officer appointed by the Board of the Agency, in accordance with the advice and instructions of the Board.

(b) The Chief Executive Officer referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be a person who meets the criteria set out in the regulations made by the National Drug Agency under this Act.

(c) The Chief Executive Officer shall attend the meetings of the Board of the National Drug Agency, unless the Chairman of the Board decides otherwise.

(d) The Minister shall be answerable to the People's Majlis on matters concerning the National Drug Agency.

(e) The regulations concerning the administration of the National Drug Agency shall be made and administered by the Board of the Agency.

**Board of the Agency**

29. 

(a) The Board of the National Drug Agency is a board composed of 10 (ten) members appointed by the President, representing the following agencies.

(1) The President's Office;

(2) Ministry of Health and Family;

(3) Ministry of Home Affairs;

(4) Ministry of Human Resources, Youth and Sports;

(5) Ministry of Education;

(6) Maldives National Defence Force;

(7) Maldives Police Service;

(8) Maldives Customs Service;

(9) Department of Immigration and Emigration;

(10) A non-governmental organization working against narcotic drugs.

(b) The Chairman of the Board of the National Drug Agency is a person appointed by the President from among the members of the Board.

(c) The Board of the National Drug Agency shall be answerable to the Minister.

**CHAPTER FIVE**

**DRUG COURT**

**Drug Court**

30. 

(a) With the commencement of this Act, a court by the name of "Drug Court" is established.

(b) The Drug Court is a court that is part of the general judicial system and has the jurisdiction set out in this Act. However, due to the nature of the court, certain procedures are specific to it.

(c) The Drug Court is a court established at the same level as the Superior Courts referred to in the Courts Act of the Maldives (Law No. 22/2010). And, unless otherwise provided in this Act, all the principles set out in the Courts Act of the Maldives (Law No. 22/2010) in relation to the Superior Courts shall apply to the Drug Court to the extent that they are relevant to that court.

**Basis of the Court**

31. 

The basis of the Drug Court is to reduce the dependency of persons within its jurisdiction on narcotic drugs, thereby reducing the rate at which they commit crimes to sustain their dependency, and to expand the opportunity for them to participate in society as responsible citizens.[[1](https://www.google.com/url?sa=E&q=https%3A%2F%2Fvertexaisearch.cloud.google.com%2Fgrounding-api-redirect%2FAUZIYQHOL59L0qq1aqkUrTKJnCy9Kb1m1UeDPqgWOnWM0c2GGtEbpdUzlJjW8Hb6-2LESXgIc54GSuTFauUBqGht_dSJ66O7z5OWT6CFA_J8oZsqvShjZ8FaOUusjRoDXQrJz2TBZHQJ5evKjVN1zlgW5y6GyuXtTZ45Qj8kzTBHyNoiQ8z6Waz7lzifkzA%3D)]

**Object of the Court**

32. 

(a) The object of the establishment of the Drug Court is to achieve the following.[[1](https://www.google.com/url?sa=E&q=https%3A%2F%2Fvertexaisearch.cloud.google.com%2Fgrounding-api-redirect%2FAUZIYQHOL59L0qq1aqkUrTKJnCy9Kb1m1UeDPqgWOnWM0c2GGtEbpdUzlJjW8Hb6-2LESXgIc54GSuTFauUBqGht_dSJ66O7z5OWT6CFA_J8oZsqvShjZ8FaOUusjRoDXQrJz2TBZHQJ5evKjVN1zlgW5y6GyuXtTZ45Qj8kzTBHyNoiQ8z6Waz7lzifkzA%3D)]

(1) To work towards reducing the dependency of persons within its jurisdiction on narcotic drugs;[[1](https://www.google.com/url?sa=E&q=https%3A%2F%2Fvertexaisearch.cloud.google.com%2Fgrounding-api-redirect%2FAUZIYQHOL59L0qq1aqkUrTKJnCy9Kb1m1UeDPqgWOnWM0c2GGtEbpdUzlJjW8Hb6-2LESXgIc54GSuTFauUBqGht_dSJ66O7z5OWT6CFA_J8oZsqvShjZ8FaOUusjRoDXQrJz2TBZHQJ5evKjVN1zlgW5y6GyuXtTZ45Qj8kzTBHyNoiQ8z6Waz7lzifkzA%3D)]

(2) To reduce the rate at which persons within its jurisdiction commit crimes to sustain their dependency on narcotic drugs due to their addiction;[[1](https://www.google.com/url?sa=E&q=https%3A%2F%2Fvertexaisearch.cloud.google.com%2Fgrounding-api-redirect%2FAUZIYQHOL59L0qq1aqkUrTKJnCy9Kb1m1UeDPqgWOnWM0c2GGtEbpdUzlJjW8Hb6-2LESXgIc54GSuTFauUBqGht_dSJ66O7z5OWT6CFA_J8oZsqvShjZ8FaOUusjRoDXQrJz2TBZHQJ5evKjVN1zlgW5y6GyuXtTZ45Qj8kzTBHyNoiQ8z6Waz7lzifkzA%3D)]

(3) To prioritize finding ways to reintegrate persons within its jurisdiction into society;[[1](https://www.google.com/url?sa=E&q=https%3A%2F%2Fvertexaisearch.cloud.google.com%2Fgrounding-api-redirect%2FAUZIYQHOL59L0qq1aqkUrTKJnCy9Kb1m1UeDPqgWOnWM0c2GGtEbpdUzlJjW8Hb6-2LESXgIc54GSuTFauUBqGht_dSJ66O7z5OWT6CFA_J8oZsqvShjZ8FaOUusjRoDXQrJz2TBZHQJ5evKjVN1zlgW5y6GyuXtTZ45Qj8kzTBHyNoiQ8z6Waz7lzifkzA%3D)]

(4) To link the treatment system for persons addicted to narcotic drugs with the general judicial system, and to give legal and judicial status to the treatment system.[[1](https://www.google.com/url?sa=E&q=https%3A%2F%2Fvertexaisearch.cloud.google.com%2Fgrounding-api-redirect%2FAUZIYQHOL59L0qq1aqkUrTKJnCy9Kb1m1UeDPqgWOnWM0c2GGtEbpdUzlJjW8Hb6-2LESXgIc54GSuTFauUBqGht_dSJ66O7z5OWT6CFA_J8oZsqvShjZ8FaOUusjRoDXQrJz2TBZHQJ5evKjVN1zlgW5y6GyuXtTZ45Qj8kzTBHyNoiQ8z6Waz7lzifkzA%3D)]

(b) The Drug Court shall achieve the objects set out in paragraph (a) of this Article by compelling persons within its jurisdiction to participate in the treatment programs determined by the court, by making treatment mandatory, and by eliminating or reducing their dependency on narcotic drugs.

**Transfer of Cases to the Drug Court**

33. 

(a) The judges of the Criminal Court and the Juvenile Court, the judges of the Drug Court, and the Prosecutor General shall jointly determine which of the cases pending before the Criminal Court or the Juvenile Court prior to the commencement of this Act are related to the jurisdiction of the Drug Court, and those cases shall be transferred from those two courts to the Drug Court within 30 (thirty) days from the date of expiry of the period specified in Article 39 of this Act.

(b) Cases pending before the Criminal Court or the Juvenile Court prior to the commencement of this Act which are related to the jurisdiction of the Drug Court shall not be heard by the Criminal Court or the Juvenile Court within the period specified in paragraph (a) of this Article.

**Commencement of the Drug Court**

34. 

(a) Although the Drug Court is established with the commencement of this Act, the Drug Court shall commence its functions from the date on which the regulations required for its administration are published and announced.

(b) The regulations required for the administration of the Drug Court shall be made and published and announced by that court within 30 (thirty) days from the date of expiry of the period specified in Article 39 of this Act.

**Persons to whom the Court's Jurisdiction Shall Extend**

35. 

(a) The jurisdiction of the Drug Court shall extend to the following three categories of persons, who fulfill the conditions set out in this Article in relation to that category.

(1) Persons against whom a charge of the offense of using narcotic drugs or the offense of peddling narcotic drugs has been brought;

(2) Persons against whom a charge of a criminal offense committed while under the influence of narcotic drugs has been brought;

(3) Persons who are serving a sentence for a criminal offense.

(b) The jurisdiction of the Drug Court shall extend to a person referred to in sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph (a) of this Article, against whom a charge of the offense of using narcotic drugs or the offense of peddling narcotic drugs has been brought, if they fulfill the following conditions.

(1) They are a person addicted to narcotic drugs; and

(2) They are a person who has confessed or has agreed to confess to the offense with which they are charged; and

(3) They are not a person against whom a charge of an offense set out in Article 36 of this Act has been brought in another court; and

(4) They are a person who is eligible for the treatment program of the Drug Court in accordance with this Act.

(c) The jurisdiction of the Drug Court shall extend to a person referred to in sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph (a) of this Article, against whom a charge of a criminal offense committed while under the influence of narcotic drugs has been brought, if they fulfill the following conditions.

(1) They are a person addicted to narcotic drugs; and

(2) The offense with which they are charged was committed by them while under the influence of narcotic drugs; and

(3) The offense with which they are charged is not an offense set out in Article 36 of this Act; and

(4) They are not a person against whom a charge of an offense set out in Article 36 of this Act has been brought in another court; and

(5) The offense with which they are charged is not an offense for which, if convicted, they could be sentenced to imprisonment or banishment for a term exceeding 10 (ten) years; and

(6) They are a person who has confessed or has agreed to confess to the offense with which they are charged; and

(7) They are a person who is eligible for the treatment program of the Drug Court in accordance with this Act.

(d) The jurisdiction of the Drug Court shall extend to a person referred to in sub-paragraph (3) of paragraph (a) of this Article, who is serving a sentence for a criminal offense, if they fulfill the following conditions.

(1) They are a person addicted to narcotic drugs; and

(2) The offense to which the sentence they are serving relates is the offense of using narcotic drugs or the offense of peddling narcotic drugs; or

(3) If they are a person who has been sentenced to more than one sentence, and the sentence they are currently serving is not for the offense of using narcotic drugs or the offense of peddling narcotic drugs, the next sentence to be served after the completion of that sentence is for the offense of using narcotic drugs or the offense of peddling narcotic drugs; and

(4) The offense to which the sentence they are serving relates is not an offense set out in Article 36 of this Act; and

(5) They are not a person against whom a charge of an offense set out in Article 36 of this Act has been brought in another court; and

(6) They are a person who is eligible for the treatment program of the Drug Court in accordance with this Act.

**Persons to whom the Court's Jurisdiction Shall Not Extend**

36. 

The jurisdiction of the Drug Court shall not extend to persons against whom a charge of one of the following offenses has been brought, and persons who have been convicted of one of these offenses and whose sentence has not been completed.

(a) The offense of murder;

(b) The offense of terrorism;

(c) An offense specified in the Act on Special Measures against Persons who Commit Sexual Abuse against Children (Law No. 12/2009);

(d) The offense of trafficking in narcotic drugs;

(e) The offense of committing an immoral act by force;

(f) The offense of participating in the commission of an offense set out in paragraphs (a) to (e) of this Article or the offense of aiding and abetting the commission of any of those offenses.

**Jurisdiction of the Drug Court**

37. 

(a) Unless otherwise provided in this Act, the Drug Court has the jurisdiction to hear cases of criminal offenses committed by persons who fulfill the conditions set out in Article 35 of this Act.

(b) In hearing the cases referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article, the Drug Court has the powers vested in the Criminal Court and the Juvenile Court under the Courts Act of the Maldives (Law No. 22/2010).

**Composition of the Drug Court**

38. 

(a) The Drug Court shall be composed of at least 5 (five) judges.

(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, if the Judicial Service Commission deems it necessary to increase the number of judges based on the workload of the Drug Court, additional judges may be appointed to that court in the number determined by the Commission.

(c) Unless otherwise provided in this Act or any other law, cases submitted to the Drug Court shall be heard and judged by a bench of one judge.

**Appointment of Judges**

39. 

The judges to be appointed to the Drug Court in accordance with Article 38 of this Act shall be appointed by the Judicial Service Commission in accordance with the Judges Act of the Maldives (Law No. 13/2010) within 60 (sixty) days from the date of commencement of this Act.

**Qualifications of Drug Court Judges**

40. 

(a) Judges appointed to the Drug Court shall fulfill the following qualifications.

(1) Have obtained a first degree in Islamic Shari'ah or law or in law and Islamic Shari'ah;

(2) Have at least 2 (two) years of practical experience as a judge or a legal practitioner in a matter related to the jurisdiction of the court.

(b) Upon fulfillment of the two qualifications set out in paragraph (a) of this Article, the educational and experience qualifications set out in Article 149 (a) of the Constitution shall be deemed to be fulfilled by the judges appointed to the Drug Court.

**Powers of Drug Court Judges**

41. 

The judges of the Drug Court have the following powers under this Act.

(a) To hear cases submitted to the Drug Court;

(b) To do all things necessary in accordance with the law and regulations to fulfill the responsibilities of the judges of the Drug Court;

(c) To make and administer the regulations related to the administration of the Drug Court.

**Appointment of Staff**

42. 

The staff required for the Drug Court shall be appointed and finalized within 30 (thirty) days from the date of expiry of the period specified in Article 39 of this Act.

**Location of the Drug Court**

43. 

The Drug Court shall normally be located in Malé. However, this Act does not prevent the arrangement for the judges of the Drug Court to work in different regions of the Maldives or the relocation of the court to a place where the Drug Court is needed at the time.

**National Drug Agency to Advise the Drug Court**

44. 

The National Drug Agency shall provide the Drug Court with the necessary advice in hearing cases of narcotic drugs, in determining penalties in such cases, and in determining treatment programs for persons who use narcotic drugs.

**Appointment of Technical Persons by the National Drug Agency to Advise the Drug Court**

45. 

In order to provide advice to the Drug Court as provided in Article 44 of this Act, the National Drug Agency shall form a technical team or teams. And the National Drug Agency shall make arrangements for the continuous availability of the services of such teams to the Drug Court.

**Submission of Report**

46. 

The Drug Court shall, once a year, prepare and submit a report to the National Drug Control Council, including the following.

1.  Details of the cases submitted;
2.  The outcome of the cases;
3.  The type of cases;
4.  Details of the persons sent for treatment;
5.  Details of the persons who completed treatment;
6.  Details of the persons who did not complete treatment;
7.  The time taken to conclude the cases;
8.  Administrative difficulties.

**CHAPTER SIX**

**TREATMENT CENTERS**

**Establishment of Centers Providing Various Types of Services**

47. 

(a) Within 6 (six) months from the date of commencement of the Second Amendment to the Drugs Act (Law No. 17/2011), the National Drug Agency shall establish and commence the operation of centers with arrangements to provide the following types of services. This Article does not prevent the establishment of a center or centers that provide all services together and/or the establishment of a center or centers that provide services separately in making those arrangements.

(1) Detoxification;

(2) Drug Treatment and Rehabilitation;

(3) Special Drug Treatment and Rehabilitation for Children;

(4) Special Drug Treatment and Rehabilitation for Women;

(5) Halfway House.

(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, this Act does not prevent the National Drug Agency from establishing and operating, in addition to the centers including the services that must be established under paragraph (a) of this Article for the treatment of persons who use narcotic drugs, the necessary number of centers including detoxification services, centers including drug treatment and rehabilitation services, centers including special drug treatment and rehabilitation services for children and women, and halfway houses, and centers providing other types of treatment services determined by the National Drug Agency, in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

(c) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Article, this Act does not prevent the operation of a center or centers including the services that must be established under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Article for the treatment of persons who use narcotic drugs, by entrusting them to a private party in accordance with the principles and conditions determined by the National Drug Agency. However, if a center is to be operated by entrusting it to a private party, it shall be done through a public announcement seeking interested parties. And the principles and conditions referred to in this Article shall be determined before making that announcement.

(d) In addition to establishing the centers including the services that the National Drug Agency is required to establish and operate by paragraph (a) of this Article, private parties who are interested in establishing and operating such centers may be granted a license to establish and operate such centers in the Maldives, in accordance with the conditions set out in the regulations made by the National Drug Agency under this Act.

**Drug Offender Remand Center**

48. 

(a) Within 6 (six) months from the date of commencement of the Second Amendment to the Drugs Act (Law No. 17/2011), a Drug Offender Remand Center shall be established and the National Drug Agency shall commence its operation.

(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, this Act does not prevent the National Drug Agency from establishing and operating additional Drug Offender Remand Centers that are necessary for the treatment of persons who use narcotic drugs, in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

(c) The Drug Offender Remand Centers established and operated in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Article shall be operated by the Government of the Maldives. This Act does not permit the granting of a license to operate such a center to any other party.

**Details of Treatment Centers**

49. 

(a) The detoxification service referred to in sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph (a) of Article 47 of this Act are services specialized in conducting programs under the supervision of a healthcare provider to physically eliminate the extent of a person's addiction to narcotic drugs and the extent to which the poison of the narcotic drugs has taken hold in their body and senses, and to save them from the scourge of narcotic drugs.

(b) The drug treatment and rehabilitation service referred to in sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph (a) of Article 47 of this Act is a service provided on the basis of assisting a person who uses narcotic drugs to overcome the difficulties they face when trying to move away from narcotic drugs by keeping them in custody in that place and providing them with treatment and conducting rehabilitation programs.

(c) The special drug treatment and rehabilitation service for children referred to in sub-paragraph (3) of paragraph (a) of Article 47 of this Act is a service specialized in providing treatment to children under the age of 18 (eighteen) who are caught in the scourge of narcotic drugs, by keeping them separate from adults, and assisting them to overcome the difficulties they face when trying to move away from narcotic drugs by conducting various programs.

(d) The special drug treatment and rehabilitation service for women referred to in sub-paragraph (4) of paragraph (a) of Article 47 of this Act is a service specialized for women within the drug treatment and rehabilitation centers referred to in sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph (a) of Article 47 of this Act.

(e) The halfway houses referred to in sub-paragraph (5) of paragraph (a) of Article 47 of this Act are services where arrangements are made for persons addicted to narcotic drugs to receive treatment while living there, based on the principle of being able to live within a family in order to reintegrate them into society.

(f) The Drug Offender Remand Center referred to in Article 48 of this Act are centers specialized in providing basic treatment to persons arrested on suspicion of the offense of using and peddling narcotic drugs, by keeping them there during their period of detention.

**License to Operate Centers**

50. 

The treatment centers established under paragraph (a) and (c) of Article 47 and Article 48 of this Act shall be centers operated under a license issued by the National Drug Agency, in accordance with the regulations made by the National Drug Agency under this Act.

**Making Regulations Regarding Centers**

51. 

The principles for establishing and operating the treatment centers referred to in Article 47 and Article 48 of this Act, the standards to be maintained in such centers, other standards to be followed in operating such centers, and the principles for licensing the operation of such centers shall be included in a regulation made by the National Drug Agency.

**Making Regulations Regarding Programs Conducted by Centers**

52. 

(a) The programs conducted in the treatment centers established under Article 47 and Article 48 of this Act shall be programs formulated in accordance with the rules set out in the regulations made by the National Drug Agency, and shall be conducted in accordance with those regulations. And this regulation shall include counseling, and that counseling shall be determined to be Islamic-based counseling.

(b) The manner in which employees of different categories or different professions or different levels providing services in the treatment centers established under Article 47 and Article 48 of this Act will qualify for the position, the code of conduct to be maintained while performing their duties, and the professional standards shall be set out in the regulations made by the National Drug Agency.

**Responsibility for Operating Treatment Centers**

53. 

(a) Every treatment center established under Article 47 and Article 48 of this Act shall be operated by appointing a Superintendent by the party operating the center, and the full responsibility of the center shall be borne by that Superintendent.

(b) The owner of a center shall not be absolved of the responsibility they must bear for an act that takes place in a center in contravention of this Act or any other law.

(c) The National Drug Agency shall monitor the manner in which the treatment centers established under Article 47 and Article 48 of this Act are being operated. And at least 2 (two) times a year, a report on the matter shall be prepared and published for the public.

**Review Committee of Treatment Centers**

54. 

(a) While providing treatment or conducting rehabilitation programs in the treatment centers under this Act, a review committee shall be established by the Superintendent of each center in accordance with the regulations made by the National Drug Agency under this Act, in order to review matters related to the persons receiving treatment.

(b) The chairperson of the committee referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be a person who meets the criteria set out in the regulations made by the National Drug Agency under this Act.

**PART THREE**

**TRIAL STAGE**

**CHAPTER SEVEN**

**SUBMISSION OF CASES AND TRANSFER OF CASES**

**Bringing Charges**

55. 

(a) If the Prosecutor General, after considering the matters identified in an investigation conducted into the suspicion of a criminal offense against a person, decides to prosecute the person suspected of the offense, and if the Prosecutor General believes that the person suspected of the offense is a person who falls within the jurisdiction of the Drug Court, they shall submit the charge of that offense to the Drug Court.

(b) Charges against persons other than those specified in this Act as falling within the jurisdiction of the Drug Court, among those against whom a charge of a criminal offense has been brought, shall be proceeded with in the Criminal Court or another court that has jurisdiction over the matter.

**Discretion to Prosecute and Not to Prosecute**

56. 

(a) Notwithstanding that a case against a person specified in this Act as falling within the jurisdiction of the Drug Court is pending before that court, this Act does not prevent the bringing of a charge of an offense set out in Article 36 of this Act against them in the Criminal Court or another court that has jurisdiction to hear cases of such offenses.

(b) If, while a case against a person specified in this Act as falling within the jurisdiction of the Drug Court is pending before that court, it becomes necessary to bring a charge against them in another court for an offense other than an offense set out in Article 36 of this Act which the Drug Court does not have jurisdiction to hear, the Prosecutor General may decide to drop that charge and proceed only with the charge pending in the Drug Court.

**Withdrawal of a Pending Charge**

57. 

(a) If, while a charge of an offense which the Drug Court does not have jurisdiction to hear has been brought against a person in another court, it becomes necessary to bring a charge in the Drug Court against a person specified in this Act as falling within the jurisdiction of the Drug Court, the Prosecutor General may decide to withdraw the pending charge and bring a charge only in the Drug Court against them.

(b) If, while a case against a person specified in this Act as falling within the jurisdiction of the Drug Court is pending before that court, a charge of an offense which the Drug Court does not have jurisdiction to hear has been brought against them in another court at the time the case was submitted to the Drug Court, the Prosecutor General may decide to withdraw that charge and proceed only with the charge pending in the Drug Court.

**Bringing More Than One Charge**

58. 

(a) If, while a case against a person specified in this Act as falling within the jurisdiction of the Drug Court is pending before that court, it becomes necessary to bring more than one charge against them in another court in connection with an offense which the Drug Court does not have jurisdiction to hear, the Prosecutor General may decide to bring one of those charges against them and drop the other charges, or to drop all of those charges and proceed only with the charge pending in the Drug Court.

(b) If, while a case against a person specified in this Act as falling within the jurisdiction of the Drug Court is pending before that court, more than one charge has been brought against them in another court in connection with an offense which the Drug Court does not have jurisdiction to hear, the Prosecutor General may decide to proceed with one of those charges and withdraw the other charges, or to not proceed with any of those charges and proceed only with the charge pending in the Drug Court.

**Charge Related to an Additional Offense Falling within the Jurisdiction of the Drug Court**

59. 

(a) If, while a case against a person specified in this Act as falling within the jurisdiction of the Drug Court is pending before that court, it becomes necessary to bring an additional charge against them for an offense which that court has jurisdiction to hear, the Prosecutor General may decide to drop that charge and proceed only with the charge currently pending in the Drug Court.

(b) If, while a person is completing a treatment program under a rehabilitation order made under Article 68 of this Act, it becomes necessary to bring a charge against them for a criminal offense other than an offense set out in Article 36 of this Act which they have committed, the Prosecutor General has the discretion to withhold that charge as long as they are completing the treatment program in accordance with the rehabilitation order made against them. And if they discontinue the treatment program without completing it in accordance with the rehabilitation order, the Prosecutor General has the discretion to bring that charge against them.

(c) If, while a subsequent judgment has been passed against a person specified in this Act as falling within the jurisdiction of the Drug Court under Article 85 of this Act, it becomes necessary to bring a charge against them in connection with a criminal offense other than an offense set out in Article 36 of this Act which they committed before their case was submitted to that court, the Prosecutor General has the discretion to drop that charge.

**Matters to be Considered when Deciding Not to Prosecute or to Withdraw a Charge**

60. 

The Prosecutor General shall make any decision under paragraph (b) of Article 56, or under paragraph (a) or (b) of Article 57, or under paragraph (a) or (b) of Article 58, or under paragraph (a) or (b) of Article 59 of this Act, after considering the following matters.

(a) It appears from a Drug Dependency Assessment conducted through a party authorized to conduct an Indicative Assessment that, considering the circumstances in which the person against whom the charge is brought committed the offense to which the charge pending in a court other than the Drug Court relates, it is probable that they committed that offense while under the influence of narcotic drugs, or that it gives an opportunity to believe that they were a person addicted to narcotic drugs at the time they are believed to have committed that offense; or

(b) It is believed to be the most just and fair course of action in that situation to have them participate in the treatment program of the Drug Court instead of proceeding with that charge.

**Cessation of Hearing of a Case by the Drug Court**

61. 

(a) If, while a case against a person specified in this Act as falling within the jurisdiction of the Drug Court is pending before that court, a reason set out in paragraph (b) or (c) of Article 66 of this Act arises, the court shall determine that the case cannot be proceeded with in that court and shall transfer the case to another court that has jurisdiction over the matter.

(b) If, while a case against a person specified in this Act as falling within the jurisdiction of the Drug Court is pending before that court, a judgment for an offense set out in Article 36 of this Act is passed against them, the hearing of the case that was being heard by the Drug Court shall cease from that moment, and the execution of the judgment passed against them shall commence.

**PART FOUR**

**HEARING OF CASES BY THE DRUG COURT**

**CHAPTER EIGHT**

**HEARING AND DETERMINATION OF CASES BY THE DRUG COURT**

**Ascertainment of Certain Matters by the Drug Court**

62. 

When a charge is submitted to the Drug Court under paragraph (a) of Article 55 of this Act, the court shall ascertain the following matters in relation to the person against whom the charge has been brought.

(a) That they are a person who falls within the jurisdiction of that court; and

(b) That the court believes that they are a person addicted to narcotic drugs; and

(c) That they agree to undergo an Indicative Assessment in accordance with paragraph (b) of Article 63 of this Act; and

(d) That they agree to participate in and complete a treatment program determined by the court.

**Determination by the Drug Court on Proceeding with the Charge**

63. 

(a) If the person against whom a charge has been brought in the Drug Court is not a person who falls within the jurisdiction of that court, or if they object to participating in and completing a treatment program determined by that court, the court shall determine that the case cannot be proceeded with in that court and shall transfer the case to another court that has jurisdiction over the matter.

(b) If it is ascertained by the Drug Court that the person against whom a charge has been brought is a person who falls within the jurisdiction of the Drug Court and that they agree to participate in and complete a treatment program determined by that court, the court shall order the National Drug Agency to conduct an Indicative Assessment through an authorized party to determine the extent of their addiction to narcotic drugs and the type of treatment to be given to them.

(c) When the court orders the conduct of an Indicative Assessment under paragraph (b) of this Article, the order shall specify the date by which the report must be prepared and submitted to the court.

(d) If the Drug Court orders the conduct of an Indicative Assessment under paragraph (b) of this Article, the court shall also order one of the following courses of action to be taken with regard to the person against whom the charge has been brought, until the Indicative Assessment report is submitted to the court.

(1) To detain the person against whom the charge has been brought in a Drug Offender Remand Center to be brought back to court on a specified date; or

(2) To release the person against whom the charge has been brought on bail or with another condition determined by the court, subject to the condition that they appear in court on a specific date.

(e) If the Drug Court orders the conduct of an Indicative Assessment under paragraph (b) of this Article, and if the court orders the detention of the person against whom the charge has been brought in a Drug Offender Remand Center under sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph (d) of this Article until the Indicative Assessment report is submitted to the court, the court shall order the party detaining them to do the following.

(1) To bring the person against whom the charge has been brought to court on a date determined by the court; and

(2) To make arrangements for a person designated by the National Drug Agency to meet them to conduct the Indicative Assessment while they are detained in the place where they are detained.

(f) If the Drug Court orders the conduct of an Indicative Assessment under paragraph (b) of this Article, and if the court decides to release the person against whom the charge has been brought on bail or with a condition determined by the court under sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph (d) of this Article until the Indicative Assessment report is submitted to the court, the court shall order the person against whom the charge has been brought to do the following.

(1) To appear in court on a date determined by the court; and

(2) To appear at a place and on a date instructed by the National Drug Agency to undergo the Indicative Assessment, and to meet with a person designated by that Agency to conduct the Indicative Assessment.

**Preparation and Submission of the Indicative Assessment Report to the Court**

64. 

(a) The National Drug Agency shall conduct the Indicative Assessment and submit it to the court on the date ordered by the Drug Court in accordance with paragraph (b) of Article 63 of this Act.

(b) The Indicative Assessment report referred to in this Article shall include the following matters.

(1) The extent of the addiction of the person against whom the charge has been brought to narcotic drugs;

(2) The extent to which the person against whom the charge has been brought is prepared for a treatment program;

(3) If the person against whom the charge has been brought is prepared for a treatment program, what type of treatment is recommended to be given to them and/or in which treatment program it is recommended that they participate.

(c) Upon submission of the Indicative Assessment report to the court under paragraph (a) of this Article, the court shall give a copy of the report to the prosecuting party and the party against whom the charge has been brought.

(d) The court shall give the prosecuting party and the party against whom the charge has been brought sufficient time to consider the matters in the report before bringing them to the Drug Court to decide on the matter based on the Indicative Assessment report.

(e) The Indicative Assessment referred to in this Article shall be conducted by the National Drug Agency through a party licensed by that Agency for that purpose.

(f) The qualifications of the parties authorized by the National Drug Agency to conduct an Indicative Assessment, and the principles for issuing licenses to such parties, shall be set out in the regulations made under this Act.

**Eligibility for the Treatment Program**

65. 

(a) Notwithstanding that a person is a person against whom a charge has been brought in the Drug Court, they shall be eligible for the treatment program of the Drug Court if they are a person who has the ability to practically participate in and complete the treatment program in which they are required to participate in the Indicative Assessment conducted under paragraph (b) of Article 63 of this Act.

(b) The following persons shall not be eligible for the treatment program of the Drug Court.

(1) Persons who, due to a mental condition or disability or a mental illness, are noted in the Indicative Assessment as not having the ability to practically participate in a treatment program of the Drug Court and complete that program as required;

(2) Persons who, due to a mental condition or disability or a mental illness, are noted in the Indicative Assessment as having a high probability of resorting to violent acts and therefore not having the ability to practically participate in a treatment program of the Drug Court and complete that program as required.

**CHAPTER NINE**

**MAKING THE FIRST JUDGMENT AND SUSPENDING THE EXECUTION OF THE JUDGMENT**

**Making the First Judgment**

66. 

(a) If it is stated in the Indicative Assessment report conducted under paragraph (b) of Article 63 of this Act that the party against whom the charge has been brought is a person who is in a condition to participate in and complete a treatment program determined in that report, the Drug Court shall hear the charge brought against them, and after confirming that they confess to the offense with which they are charged, shall pass a judgment finding them guilty of that offense and shall determine a penalty for them.

(b) If, at the hearing of the charge brought against the person against whom the charge has been brought in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Article, the person against whom the charge has been brought does not confess to the offense with which they are charged, the Drug Court shall determine that the case cannot be further proceeded with in that court and shall transfer the case to another court that has jurisdiction over the matter.

(c) If it is stated in the Indicative Assessment report that the party against whom the charge has been brought is not a person who is in a condition to participate in and complete a treatment program noted in that report, the Drug Court shall determine that the case cannot be further proceeded with in that court and shall transfer the case to another court that has jurisdiction over the matter.

**Withholding the Execution of the First Judgment**

67. 

(a) Upon making the first judgment against the person against whom the charge has been brought under paragraph (a) of Article 66 of this Act, the court shall immediately issue an order to withhold the execution of that judgment.

(b) The first judgment made against a person in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Article shall be withheld until the rehabilitation order made against them under Article 68 of this Act comes to an end or unless the court decides otherwise.

(c) The first judgment made by the Drug Court against the person against whom the charge has been brought under paragraph (a) of Article 66 of this Act is a judgment the execution of which can be pardoned by another judgment of the court if they complete and finish the treatment program determined by the court. And if they do not complete the treatment program, or if they do not accept the proposed treatment program, it is a judgment that will be reinstated and begin to be executed against them.

**CHAPTER TEN**

**REHABILITATION ORDER**

**Rehabilitation Order**

68. 

After making the first judgment against the party against whom the charge has been brought under paragraph (a) of Article 66 of this Act, and after making an order to withhold the execution of that judgment under paragraph (a) of Article 67 of this Act, the court shall make a rehabilitation order against the party to whom the report relates, based on the Indicative Assessment report conducted under paragraph (b) of Article 63 of this Act.

**Components of a Rehabilitation Order**

69. 

A rehabilitation order made by the Drug Court under Article 68 of this Act shall include the following matters.

(a) Details of the judgment made against the party to whom the order relates;

(b) The manner in which the execution of the judgment referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article has been suspended;

(c) The conditions that the order makes it mandatory to comply with;

(d) The type and details of the treatment program to be participated in.

**Setting Aside the Order to Withhold the Execution of the First Judgment**

70. 

(a) Notwithstanding that the Drug Court has made a rehabilitation order against a person under Article 68 of this Act, if the court believes that the arrangements for providing treatment in accordance with that order cannot be made, the court may set aside the order made under paragraph (a) of Article 67 of this Act to suspend the execution of the first judgment made against them under paragraph (a) of Article 66 of this Act, and order the commencement of the execution of the first judgment.

(b) An order made by the court in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Article to commence the execution of a first judgment made against a person shall remain in force until the occurrence of the first of the following two events. And upon the occurrence of one of those two events in that manner, the order made under paragraph (a) of Article 67 of this Act to suspend the execution of the first judgment shall be reinstated, and the rehabilitation order shall begin to take effect.

(1) The arrangement for providing treatment in accordance with the rehabilitation order;

(2) The expiry of 90 (ninety) days from the date of the first judgment.

(c) If, at the expiry of the period in sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph (b) of this Article, the arrangements for providing treatment in accordance with the rehabilitation order cannot be made, the party detaining the person to whom the order relates shall bring them to the Drug Court before the expiry of that period.

(d) If a person to whom a rehabilitation order relates is brought to the Drug Court in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Article, the court shall decide on the execution of the first judgment made against them, the suspension of the execution of that judgment, and the commencement of the execution of the rehabilitation order.

**Essential Elements of a Rehabilitation Order**

71. 

A rehabilitation order shall be made subject to the condition of doing the following.

(a) Not committing any further offense during the period of the order;

(b) Complying with the orders made by the treatment center;

(c) Regularly attending court on the days on which they are ordered to attend court;

(d) Not leaving the island where the treatment center is located without an order of the court;

(e) If the residential address or the place of employment changes, to inform the center where they are registered within 3 (three) days.

**Additional Elements of a Rehabilitation Order**

72. 

A rehabilitation order may also be made subject to the condition of including the following elements based on the situation.

(a) To work for a specific period or a specific total number of hours in a work beneficial to the community;

(b) To order the doing of another thing that will facilitate the return to the treatment system or the community.

**Matters to be Included in a Treatment Program**

73. 

When a rehabilitation order is made, the information about the treatment program to which the person to whom the order relates is to be submitted shall be stated in that order in as much detail as possible. This includes the following matters.

(a) The frequency and duration or number of times they will have to meet with a corrections officer;

(b) The number of times or the times or the days on which they will have to present themselves for testing to see if the effect of narcotic drugs is present in their body;

(c) For persons for whom the Indicative Assessment states that it is advisable to participate in a vocational education program or a vocational training program to learn a job or a skill, their agreement to participate in such a program;

(d) Their agreement to accept and present themselves for medical, psychiatric, or psychological treatment;

(e) That the court may decide to imprison them for a period not exceeding 21 (twenty-one) days if the court deems it necessary to imprison them for a specific period for the following reasons, in relation to the treatment program.

(1) To assist in ridding them of the effect of narcotic drugs, or to determine the extent to which their participation in the treatment program has had a positive effect on them;

(2) There is no other option but to imprison them until a suitable other center to which they can be sent is found.

**Explaining the Contents of a Rehabilitation Order**

74. 

Before making a rehabilitation order against a person under Article 68 of this Act, the Drug Court shall clarify the following matters to them.

(a) That the rehabilitation order includes the following components.

(1) The judgment made against them under this Act and if there is any other judgment or judgments that have not been executed against them, that such judgments have been withheld for a certain period.

(2) The essential elements included in that order.

(3) If an additional condition has been included in accordance with this Act, the details thereof.

(4) The details of the treatment program in which they are to participate.

(b) The purpose and outcome of the rehabilitation order.

(c) The course of action that will be taken against them if they violate the rehabilitation order.

**Time when the Order Takes Effect**

75. 

(a) If a rehabilitation order is made against a person under Article 68 of this Act, that order shall begin to take effect against them from the time they confirm in writing that they have received the written order.

(b) Upon the commencement of a rehabilitation order made against a person under Article 68 of this Act, they shall be under the jurisdiction of the Drug Court for the duration of that order.

**Withholding the Execution of a Rehabilitation Order**

76. 

If, while a rehabilitation order made by the Drug Court against a person specified in this Act as falling within the jurisdiction of that court is in effect, a judgment for an offense set out in Article 36 of this Act is passed against them, the execution of the judgment made against them shall commence. And during the period in which that judgment is being executed, the execution of the rehabilitation order made against them shall be withheld.

**Amendment of a Rehabilitation Order**

77. 

(a) The court has the power to amend and change a rehabilitation order previously made, upon the submission of a request by the party to whom a rehabilitation order made under Article 68 of this Act relates, or if it appears to the Drug Court on its own motion.

(b) If an amendment or a change is made to a rehabilitation order under paragraph (a) of this Article, the reason for the change shall be stated in writing.

**Granting of Benefits**

78. 

If it is ascertained by the Drug Court that a party to whom a rehabilitation order relates is participating in the treatment program in a good manner as provided in that order, the court may decide to grant them the following benefits.

(a) To grant certain types of reliefs or privileges as the court deems fit;

(b) To reduce the number of days on which they are required to present themselves for testing to see if the effect of narcotic drugs is present in their body;

(c) To grant a relief to the number of times they are required to present themselves to a specific place at a specific time and meet a specific person for their supervision;

(d) To change the vocational training program in which they are participating to another program, or to bring a change to the total number of hours fixed for them to do work beneficial to the community and to grant a relief.

**Taking Action**

79. 

If it is ascertained by the Drug Court that a party to whom a rehabilitation order made under Article 68 of this Act relates is not participating in the treatment program as provided in that order, the court may order the following to be done.

(a) If any benefit or relief has been granted to them, to put a stop to it;

(b) To order them to pay a fine to the court as a sum of money to be paid to the court;

(c) To increase the time and frequency at which the person receiving treatment is required to present themselves to a specific person for supervision;

(d) To increase the frequency or number of times the person receiving treatment is required to present themselves for medical, psychiatric, or psychological treatment;

(e) To increase the time fixed for doing work beneficial to the community;

(f) To imprison them for a period not exceeding 15 (fifteen) days.

**Restriction of the Right to Appeal**

80. 

Although the right to appeal the judgments passed and the court orders issued in criminal and civil cases is granted to every person concerned in the matter under Article 57 of the Constitution, since a rehabilitation order of the Drug Court is made against a person with their consent, in the following circumstances, the parties who have the right to appeal the judgments and orders of the Drug Court do not have that right under this Act.

(a) The first judgment made under Article 66 of this Act;

(b) The rehabilitation order made under Article 68 of this Act;

(c) An order to set aside an order to withhold the execution of the first judgment;

(d) An order made by the court ordering attendance in court on a specific date.

**CHAPTER ELEVEN**

**DISCONTINUATION OF THE TREATMENT PROGRAM**

**Discontinuation of the Treatment Program**

81. 

(a) The Drug Court may be notified to discontinue the treatment program of a person receiving treatment under a rehabilitation order made under Article 68 of this Act in any of the following circumstances.

(1) A request is made by one of the parties specified in Article 82 of this Act to discontinue the treatment program;

(2) The matters specified in the rehabilitation order are not being done as specified therein;

(3) The person receiving treatment does not agree to the amendment of the rehabilitation order when it is proposed;

(4) The person receiving treatment does not agree to act in accordance with an amended rehabilitation order;

(5) It appears that continuing the treatment program is not something that will yield a desirable result.

(b) If the Drug Court decides to bring a treatment program to an end under paragraph (a) of this Article, the court shall inform the person receiving treatment of that fact, stating the reason.

**Parties who may Request the Court to Discontinue a Treatment Program**

82. 

(a) The following parties may request the court to discontinue the treatment program of a person receiving treatment under a rehabilitation order made under Article 68 of this Act.

(1) The person receiving treatment;

(2) The National Drug Agency;

(3) The center supervising the person receiving treatment.

(b) If the person receiving treatment requests the Drug Court to discontinue the treatment, the court shall give notice of that fact to the treatment center supervising them, the Prosecutor General, and the National Drug Agency.

(c) If the treatment center supervising the person receiving treatment requests the discontinuation of the treatment program, the court shall give notice of that fact to the person receiving treatment, the Prosecutor General, and the National Drug Agency.

(d) If the National Drug Agency requests the discontinuation of the treatment program of the person receiving treatment, the court shall give notice of that fact to the person receiving treatment, the Prosecutor General, and the treatment center supervising the person receiving treatment.

(e) Upon a request by a party from among the parties in paragraph (a) of this Article to discontinue the treatment program, the court may decide to keep the person receiving treatment in the custody of the Maldives Police Service or in another place determined by the court until the rehabilitation order made against that party is brought to an end or until a decision is made regarding the rehabilitation order.

**Termination of the Rehabilitation Order upon Discontinuation of the Treatment Program**

83. 

(a) If the Drug Court decides to discontinue a treatment program of a person receiving treatment under a rehabilitation order made under Article 68 of this Act, under Article 81 of this Act, the rehabilitation order made by that court against the person receiving treatment shall be brought to an end.

(b) Upon the discontinuation of a rehabilitation order made against a person receiving treatment under paragraph (a) of this Article, the first judgment made against them under paragraph (a) of Article 66 of this Act shall be reinstated, and the court shall order the commencement of the execution of that judgment in prison in accordance with that judgment.

**CHAPTER TWELVE**

**COMPLETION OF THE TREATMENT PROGRAM**

**Completion of the Treatment Program**

84. 

A treatment program of a person completing a treatment program under a rehabilitation order made under Article 68 of this Act shall be deemed to be completed upon the completion by the party to whom the order relates of all the components of the treatment program that are determined to be completed in that order, in accordance with that order.

**Determination of the Subsequent Judgment**

85. 

(a) Upon the completion of a treatment program of a person who has participated in a treatment program under a rehabilitation order in accordance with Article 84 of this Act, the rehabilitation order made against them under Article 68 of this Act shall be brought to an end, and the Drug Court shall determine a subsequent judgment against them in one of the ways set out in Article 86 of this Act.

(b) In determining the subsequent judgment under paragraph (a) of this Article, the court shall consider the following matters.

(1) The opinion of the party who treated them on the manner in which they completed the treatment program;

(2) The benefits granted to them during the period of treatment;

(3) The measures taken against them during the period of treatment.

(c) Upon the making of a subsequent judgment in accordance with Article 86 of this Act against a person who has completed treatment, the first judgment made against them under paragraph (a) of Article 66 of this Act shall be nullified.

**Ways in which a Subsequent Judgment may be Made**

86. 

(a) The subsequent judgment referred to in Article 85 of this Act may be made by the court in one of the following ways.

(1) To release them without imposing any conditions, upon nullifying the first judgment;

(2) To release them with certain conditions determined by the court, upon nullifying the first judgment;

(3) To release them with certain conditions determined by the court, upon nullifying the first judgment and suspending the determination of the subsequent judgment;

(4) To release them with certain conditions determined by the court, upon nullifying the first judgment, making a subsequent judgment, and suspending the execution of that judgment.

(b) The period of the subsequent judgment shall not exceed the period of the first judgment made against the party to whom the subsequent judgment relates. And the type of that judgment shall not be harsher than the type of the first judgment.

(c) If the determination of a subsequent judgment against a person has been suspended with a condition under sub-paragraph (3) of paragraph (a) of this Article, if the party to whom that judgment relates violates that condition, a subsequent judgment shall be determined against them.

(d) If the execution of a subsequent judgment determined against a person has been suspended with a condition under sub-paragraph (4) of paragraph (a) of this Article, if the party to whom that judgment relates violates that condition, the execution of that judgment shall commence against them.

(e) As long as the party to whom a subsequent judgment made against a person under sub-paragraph (4) of paragraph (a) of this Article relates does not violate any condition specified in that judgment, that judgment shall not be executed against them.

(f) If a subsequent judgment determined against a person under Article 85 of this Act is a judgment as described in sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph (a) of this Article, the period they spent in the treatment program shall be considered as the period they spent under that judgment, and their judgment shall be considered to have been executed and completed from that point.

(g) If a subsequent judgment determined against a person under Article 85 of this Act is a judgment as described in sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph (a) of this Article, as long as they do not violate a condition specified in that judgment, the period they spent in the treatment program shall be considered as the period they spent under that judgment, and their judgment shall be considered to have been executed and completed from that point.

**CHAPTER THIRTEEN**

**SPECIAL PROCEDURES RELATING TO PERSONS SERVING SENTENCES IN PRISON**

**Persons Serving Sentences in Prison at the Commencement of the Act**

87. 

(a) Persons who have been convicted of the offense of using narcotic drugs and are serving sentences in prison before the commencement of this Act, who wish to participate in a treatment program of the Drug Court, may apply to the National Drug Agency for that purpose.

(b) Upon receipt of an application from a person to participate in a treatment program of the Drug Court in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Article, if that Agency believes that the person is a party who fulfills the conditions set out in paragraph (d) of Article 35 of this Act, that Agency shall apply to the Drug Court to have them participate in a treatment program determined by the Drug Court.

**Ascertainment of Certain Matters by the Drug Court**

88. 

When an application is submitted to the Drug Court under paragraph (b) of Article 87 of this Act, the court shall ascertain the following matters.

(a) That the person serving the sentence is a person who fulfills the conditions set out in paragraph (d) of Article 35 of this Act; and

(b) That the court believes that the person serving the sentence is a person addicted to narcotic drugs; and

(c) That the person serving the sentence agrees to undergo an Indicative Assessment; and

(d) That the person serving the sentence agrees to participate in and complete a treatment program determined by the court.

**Suspension of the Execution of Sentences of Persons Serving Sentences in Prison**

89. 

(a) If, after ascertaining the matters that the court is required to ascertain under Article 88 of this Act in relation to an application of a person who wishes to participate in a treatment program of the Drug Court from among the persons who have been convicted of the offense of using narcotic drugs and are serving sentences in prison before the commencement of this Act, the court believes that they are a person who falls within the jurisdiction of that court, the sentence they are currently serving shall be considered as the first judgment made under paragraph (a) of Article 66 of this Act, and the court shall issue an order to withhold the execution of that judgment in accordance with paragraph (a) of Article 67 of this Act. And a rehabilitation order shall be made against them in accordance with Article 68 of this Act, and the court shall follow the procedures in this Act in relation to the matter.

(b) If a person whom the court determines under paragraph (a) of this Article to be a person who falls within the jurisdiction of the Drug Court is a person who has been sentenced to more than one sentence, the court shall issue an order to withhold the execution of the sentence they are currently serving and the next sentence they are to serve. And a rehabilitation order shall be made against them in accordance with Article 68 of this Act, and the court shall follow the procedures in this Act in relation to the matter.

**CHAPTER FOURTEEN**

**VOLUNTARY TREATMENT**

**Voluntary Treatment**

90. 

(a) If the guardian of a child under the age of 18 (eighteen) who is addicted to narcotic drugs due to their use of such drugs applies to a treatment center referred to in Article 47 of this Act for their treatment and rehabilitation, that child may be given treatment in a treatment center in accordance with the regulations made by the National Drug Agency under this Act, and in accordance with the principles in this Chapter.

(b) If a person over the age of 18 (eighteen) who is addicted to narcotic drugs due to their use of such drugs applies to a treatment center referred to in Article 47 of this Act for treatment and rehabilitation, they may be given treatment in a treatment center in accordance with the regulations made by the National Drug Agency under this Act, and in accordance with the principles in this Chapter.

**Condition for Voluntary Treatment**

91. 

A person under the age of 18 (eighteen) at the request of their guardian, or a person over the age of 18 (eighteen) on their own request, may be given treatment in a treatment center referred to in Article 47 of this Act under Article 90 of this Act, based on an order from the National Drug Agency after it has ascertained that the following conditions are fulfilled.

(a) It is known from a document issued by a state institution authorized by law to investigate criminal offenses that they are not suspected of having committed an offense under any law other than the use of narcotic drugs, and it is known from a document of a court having jurisdiction to hear such cases that they have not been convicted of an offense and a sentence has not been determined; and

(b) It is known from a document of a party authorized to conduct an Indicative Assessment that there is a fear that if they are not kept in a treatment center, they may pose a danger to themselves or to other people in the community; and

(c) It is known from a document of the center where they are requesting treatment that a treatment program in which they must participate has been determined based on an assessment conducted by a party authorized to conduct an Indicative Assessment in accordance with the regulations made by the National Drug Agency under this Act; and

(d) It is known from a document that the guardian of the child under the age of 18 (eighteen) or the person over the age of 18 (eighteen) has given their clear consent to participate in a treatment system; and

(e) It is known from a document of the center where they are requesting treatment that the resources required for them to receive treatment are available at that center; and

(f) A rehabilitation order made against a person has not been suspended under Article 70 of this Act due to a lack of space in the center where they are requesting treatment.

**Principles of Voluntary Treatment**

92. 

The National Drug Agency shall make and publish a regulation on the procedures for providing treatment in a treatment center referred to in Article 47 of this Act, at the request of the guardian of a child under the age of 18 (eighteen) or on the own request of a person over the age of 18 (eighteen), under Article 90 of this Act. And that Agency shall have a person participate in a treatment program in accordance with this Chapter, in accordance with that regulation.

**Exemption from Prosecution**

93. 

When a guardian of a child under the age of 18 (eighteen), or a person over the age of 18 (eighteen) applies for treatment in a treatment center referred to in Article 47 of this Act under Article 90 of this Act, their confession to using narcotic drugs is not a matter for which a charge of the offense of using narcotic drugs can be brought against them. However, if there is evidence that suggests that they have committed another criminal offense other than the use of narcotic drugs, this Act does not prevent the bringing of a charge of that criminal offense against them based on that evidence.

**Bringing a Charge of an Offense Set out in Article 36**

94. 

Notwithstanding that a person is receiving treatment under Article 90 of this Act, this Act does not prevent the bringing of a charge of an offense set out in Article 36 of this Act against them in the Criminal Court or another court that has jurisdiction over the matter.

**Charge of Additional Offenses Committed by Persons Seeking Voluntary Treatment**

95. 

(a) If it becomes necessary to bring a charge of a criminal offense other than an offense set out in Article 36 of this Act against a person who is receiving treatment under Article 90 of this Act, the Prosecutor General has the discretion to withhold that charge as long as they are completing the treatment they are receiving as required.

(b) If the person referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article discontinues the treatment they are receiving without completing it as required, the Prosecutor General has the discretion to bring the charge that was withheld under paragraph (a) of this Article against them.

(c) If the person referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article completes and finishes the treatment they are receiving as required, the Prosecutor General has the discretion to drop the charge that was withheld under paragraph (a) of this Article.

**CHAPTER FIFTEEN**

**SOME GENERAL MATTERS RELATING TO TREATMENT**

**Court to Monitor the Progress of the Treatment Program**

96. 

The Drug Court shall monitor the progress of the treatment programs conducted for persons who are determined to be given treatment in a treatment program of the Drug Court under a rehabilitation order made in accordance with Article 68 of this Act.

**Transfer of Persons in a Center from One Place to Another**

97. 

(a) Persons receiving treatment in a treatment center under this Act may be transferred from one center to another with the agreement of the Superintendents of those centers and with the permission of the National Drug Agency. When a person is so transferred, the fact that they have been transferred from one center to another shall be recorded in both centers. And the Drug Court shall be informed of such a transfer. The matters to be considered in granting permission to transfer a person from one center to another under this Article shall be set out in the regulations made by the National Drug Agency.

(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, a person who is required to be given treatment under this Act may be transferred from a treatment center of one type to a treatment center of another type after completing treatment in the former, only under an order of the Drug Court.

(c) If a person who is being supervised in custody in a treatment center needs to be taken to a specific place at a specific time, or needs to be kept in a specific place at a specific time, in order to be brought to a court, or to conduct an investigation, or as required by the public interest, or to protect their interests, it is the duty of the center where they are to take that person to that place at that time.

**Persons Receiving Treatment in a Treatment Center**

98. 

(a) A person placed in a treatment center under a rehabilitation order made under Article 68 of this Act shall be deemed to be in lawful custody.

(b) In the following circumstances also, a person in custody shall be deemed to be in lawful custody.

(1) While in transit for the purpose of being taken to a treatment center for the first time in connection with an order of the Drug Court;

(2) While in transit for the purpose of being taken to another treatment center from a treatment center while in custody;

(3) While in transit for the purpose of being taken to a place where they are required to be taken under this Act;

(4) While being temporarily kept in a place other than a treatment center in connection with work being done for the purpose of this Act.

**Arrest Warrant**

99. 

(a) If a review committee determines that a person against whom a rehabilitation order has been made under Article 68 of this Act has violated that order while receiving treatment not in a treatment center, the matter shall be submitted to the Drug Court.

(b) When a matter is submitted to the Drug Court in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Article, if the court believes that a person referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article has violated the rehabilitation order, the Drug Court may order the Maldives Police Service to bring them to the Drug Court.

(c) The court has the power to order the detention of a person arrested under an order made under paragraph (a) of this Article for a period not exceeding 30 (thirty) days until the Drug Court decides on the continuation of the program they are in.

(d) A rule of bail determined by any other law shall not apply to a person arrested under an order made under paragraph (a) of this Article.

**Going Abroad for Treatment**

100. 

(a) A person against whom a rehabilitation order has been made under Article 68 of this Act may apply to the National Drug Agency to participate in and receive treatment in a program conducted in a treatment center in a foreign country.

(b) If such an application is received by the National Drug Agency as in paragraph (a) of this Article, that Agency shall apply to the Drug Court for permission for the applicant to go to participate in a program conducted in a treatment center in a foreign country.

(c) If such an application is received by the Drug Court as in paragraph (b) of this Article, that court shall grant permission for that purpose if the following conditions are fulfilled, or with the fulfillment of those conditions and with additional conditions determined by that court.

(1) The center to which the applicant wishes to go is a center approved by the National Drug Agency;

(2) The treatment program determined for them by that center is a program accepted by the National Drug Agency;

(3) That center is a center that has an agreement with the National Drug Agency to cooperate with the Agency, share information, and report to the Agency on matters that need to be reported to the Agency regarding the persons receiving treatment from that center at the request of the Agency;

(4) That it is known that the expenses that will be incurred during the period of their stay at that center to participate in and complete the treatment program of that center have been arranged or can be arranged;

(5) They are not a person against whom a charge of a criminal offense has been brought in another court;

(6) They are not a person who has a sentence for a criminal offense that has not been executed and completed, other than a sentence the execution of which has been withheld by the Drug Court.

(d) A list of the treatment centers in foreign countries that are accepted by the National Drug Agency shall be published by that Agency. And that list shall be reviewed at least once every six months.

(e) It is mandatory for the National Drug Agency to monitor the extent to which a person who is granted permission under paragraph (c) of this Article is participating in and completing their treatment program during their stay abroad to complete the treatment program, and to inform the Drug Court of that information at intervals determined by the Drug Court.

(f) The Drug Court shall grant permission for a person who is granted permission under paragraph (c) of this Article to go abroad to complete a treatment program, after suspending the execution of the rehabilitation order made against them for the period of their treatment abroad. And upon the expiry of that period, the execution of that order shall be reinstated even if they are abroad.

**Sending for Treatment Abroad at Government Expense**

101. 

(a) If a person against whom a rehabilitation order has been made under Article 68 of this Act wishes to participate in and receive treatment in a program conducted in a treatment center in a foreign country, and if that person does not object to receiving treatment in that manner, the National Drug Agency may apply to the Drug Court for permission to send that person for treatment at government expense.

(b) If such an application is received by the Drug Court as in paragraph (a) of this Article, that court shall grant permission for that purpose if the following conditions are fulfilled, or with the fulfillment of those conditions and with additional conditions determined by that court.

(1) The center to which treatment is requested to be sent is a center approved under sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph (c) of Article 100 of this Act;

(2) The treatment program determined for them by that center is a program accepted by the National Drug Agency;

(3) That center is a center that has an agreement with the National Drug Agency to cooperate with the Agency, share information, and report to the Agency on matters that need to be reported to the Agency regarding the persons receiving treatment from that center at the request of the Agency;

(4) A document from the National Drug Agency has been submitted to the Drug Court stating that the expenses that will be incurred during the period of their stay at that center to participate in and complete the treatment program of that center will be arranged;

(5) The person receiving treatment is not a person against whom a charge of a criminal offense has been brought in another court;

(6) They are not a person who has a sentence for a criminal offense that has not been executed and completed, other than a sentence the execution of which has been withheld by the Drug Court.

(c) The principles set out in paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of Article 100 of this Act shall apply to persons who are sent for treatment abroad at government expense under this Article.

(d) A person may be given the opportunity to receive treatment from abroad at government expense under this Article only once.

(e) Persons who are sent for treatment abroad at government expense under this Article shall be monitored by the National Drug Agency for a period of at least 1 (one) year from the date of their return to the Maldives after completing treatment. And during this monitoring period, the National Drug Agency may order that person to attend a certain type of class or meeting, to present themselves to that Agency for testing of their urine at intervals determined by the National Drug Agency, and to attend counseling sessions.

**Providing Treatment in Prison**

102. 

(a) If a person who does not fall within the jurisdiction of the Drug Court or a person who does not fulfill the eligibility for the treatment program of that court is convicted of the offense of using narcotic drugs and is serving a sentence in prison, and if that person is a person who needs to be given treatment due to their addiction to narcotic drugs, the National Drug Agency shall, in collaboration with the authority responsible for the administration of the prison, make arrangements for that person to be given treatment in prison.

(b) The National Drug Agency shall, in collaboration with the authority responsible for the administration of the prison, make arrangements for providing treatment in prison to persons whom the Drug Court determines to be executed in prison under paragraph (a) of Article 70 of this Act.

**Providing Treatment while in Custody**

103. 

(a) When a person is arrested on suspicion of the offense of using or peddling narcotic drugs, if it appears to the Maldives Police Service that they are a person who needs to be given treatment in that situation due to their addiction to narcotic drugs, they shall be detained in a Drug Offender Remand Center established under Article 47 of this Act, instead of being detained in a police center designated for the detention of persons suspected of an offense.

(b) If the Drug Court orders the detention of a person under sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph (d) of Article 63 of this Act, they shall also be detained in a Drug Offender Remand Center.

(c) A person detained under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Article shall be deemed to be in the custody of the police.

**Register of Persons Receiving Treatment**

104. 

The National Drug Agency shall maintain a register of persons receiving treatment under a treatment program of the Drug Court under this Act, the details of the programs in which they are participating, and the status of the treatment being given to them. And the information required for the National Drug Agency to carry out this work shall be regularly sent to that Agency by the Drug Court and the treatment centers, in a manner determined by that Agency. And the National Drug Agency shall also maintain statistics of persons who are released after completing treatment and who need to repeat the treatment.

**PART FIVE**

**OFFENSES AND PENALTIES**

**CHAPTER SIXTEEN**

**OFFENSES RELATED TO NARCOTIC DRUGS IN SCHEDULE 1**

**Trafficking in Diamorphine**

105. 

(a) Trafficking in diamorphine is an offense.

(b) Attempting to traffic in diamorphine or aiding and abetting the trafficking of diamorphine or participating in any form in the trafficking of diamorphine is an offense.

(c) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for life and a fine of an amount between MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand) and MVR 10,000,000 (ten million).

(d) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (b) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 18 (eighteen) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 75,000 (seventy-five thousand) and MVR 7,500,000 (seven million five hundred thousand).

**Peddling of Diamorphine**

106. 

(a) Peddling of diamorphine is an offense.

(b) Attempting to peddle diamorphine or aiding and abetting the peddling of diamorphine or participating in any form in the peddling of diamorphine is an offense.

(c) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term between 5 (five) years and 10 (ten) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 15,000 (fifteen thousand) and MVR 250,000 (two hundred and fifty thousand).

(d) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (b) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term between 3 (three) years and 7 (seven) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 150,000 (one hundred and fifty thousand).

**Dealing in Diamorphine**

107. 

(a) Dealing in diamorphine is an offense.

(b) Attempting to deal in diamorphine or aiding and abetting the dealing in diamorphine or participating in any form in the dealing in diamorphine is an offense.

(c) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 15 (fifteen) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 25,000 (twenty-five thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand).

(d) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (b) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 7 (seven) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 15,000 (fifteen thousand) and MVR 250,000 (two hundred and fifty thousand).

**Trafficking in Cannabis**

108. 

(a) Trafficking in cannabis is an offense.

(b) Attempting to traffic in cannabis or aiding and abetting the trafficking of cannabis or participating in any form in the trafficking of cannabis is an offense.

(c) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for life and a fine of an amount between MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand) and MVR 10,000,000 (ten million).

(d) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (b) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 18 (eighteen) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 75,000 (seventy-five thousand) and MVR 7,500,000 (seven million five hundred thousand).

**Peddling of Cannabis**

109. 

(a) Peddling of cannabis is an offense.

(b) Attempting to peddle cannabis or aiding and abetting the peddling of cannabis or participating in any form in the peddling of cannabis is an offense.

(c) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term between 5 (five) years and 10 (ten) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 15,000 (fifteen thousand) and MVR 250,000 (two hundred and fifty thousand).

(d) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (b) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term between 3 (three) years and 7 (seven) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 150,000 (one hundred and fifty thousand).

**Dealing in Cannabis**

110. 

(a) Dealing in cannabis is an offense.

(b) Attempting to deal in cannabis or aiding and abetting the dealing in cannabis or participating in any form in the dealing in cannabis is an offense.

(c) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 15 (fifteen) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 25,000 (twenty-five thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand).

(d) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (b) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 7 (seven) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 15,000 (fifteen thousand) and MVR 250,000 (two hundred and fifty thousand).

**Trafficking in any other Narcotic Substance in Schedule 1**

111. 

(a) Trafficking in any narcotic substance in Schedule 1 other than diamorphine and cannabis is an offense.

(b) Attempting to traffic in any narcotic substance in Schedule 1 other than diamorphine and cannabis or aiding and abetting the trafficking of such a substance or participating in any form in the trafficking of such a substance is an offense.

(c) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for life and a fine of an amount between MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand) and MVR 10,000,000 (ten million).

(d) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (b) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 18 (eighteen) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 75,000 (seventy-five thousand) and MVR 7,500,000 (seven million five hundred thousand).

**Importing or Exporting a Narcotic Substance in Schedule 1**

112. 

(a) Importing a narcotic substance in Schedule 1 into the Maldives or exporting such a substance from the Maldives is an offense.

(b) Attempting to import a narcotic substance in Schedule 1 into the Maldives or attempting to export such a substance from the Maldives or aiding and abetting the import into or export from the Maldives of such a substance or participating in any form in the import into or export from the Maldives of such a substance is an offense.

(c) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for life and a fine of an amount between MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand) and MVR 10,000,000 (ten million).

(d) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (b) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 18 (eighteen) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 75,000 (seventy-five thousand) and MVR 7,500,000 (seven million five hundred thousand).

**Production of a Narcotic Substance in Schedule 1**

113. 

(a) Production of a narcotic substance in Schedule 1 is an offense.

(b) Attempting to produce a narcotic substance in Schedule 1 or aiding and abetting the production of such a substance, or participating in any form in the production of such a substance is an offense.

(c) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for life and a fine of an amount between MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand) and MVR 10,000,000 (ten million).

(d) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (b) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 18 (eighteen) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 75,000 (seventy-five thousand) and MVR 7,500,000 (seven million five hundred thousand).

**Use of Diamorphine**

114. 

(a) Use of diamorphine is an offense.

(b) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 3 (three) years.

**Use of Cannabis**

115. 

(a) Use of cannabis is an offense.

(b) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 3 (three) years.

**Use of a Narcotic Substance in Schedule 1**

116. 

(a) Use of a narcotic substance in Schedule 1 is an offense.

(b) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 3 (three) years.

**Causing the Introduction of Narcotic Drugs in Schedule 1**

117. 

(a) It is an offense to commit any of the following acts.

(1) To introduce or cause the introduction of a narcotic substance in Schedule 1 into the body of another person with their consent or knowledge, through any means;

(2) To introduce or cause the introduction of a narcotic substance in Schedule 1 into the body of a person without their consent or knowledge, or while their own will is impaired, through any means.

(b) A person who commits an offense referred to in sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 5 (five) years.

(c) A person who commits an offense referred to in sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 10 (ten) years.

**CHAPTER SEVENTEEN**

**OFFENSES RELATED TO NARCOTIC DRUGS IN SCHEDULE 2**

**Trafficking in a Narcotic Substance in Schedule 2**

118. 

(a) Trafficking in a narcotic substance in Schedule 2 is an offense.

(b) Attempting to traffic in a narcotic substance in Schedule 2 or aiding and abetting the trafficking of such a substance or participating in any form in the trafficking of such a substance is an offense.

(c) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term between 10 (ten) years and 15 (fifteen) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand) and MVR 1,000,000 (one million).

(d) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (b) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term between 7 (seven) years and 11 (eleven) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 35,000 (thirty-five thousand) and MVR 750,000 (seven hundred and fifty thousand).

**Importing or Exporting a Narcotic Substance in Schedule 2**

119. 

(a) Except with a written permit from the Ministry and in accordance with the regulations made under this Act, importing any narcotic substance in Schedule 2 into the Maldives or exporting such a substance from the Maldives is an offense.

(b) Except with a written permit from the Ministry and in accordance with the regulations made under this Act, attempting to import any narcotic substance in Schedule 2 into the Maldives or attempting to export such a substance from the Maldives or aiding and abetting the import into or export from the Maldives of such a substance or participating in any form in the import into or export from the Maldives of such a substance is an offense.

(c) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term between 10 (ten) years and 15 (fifteen) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand) and MVR 1,000,000 (one million).

(d) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (b) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term between 7 (seven) years and 11 (eleven) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 35,000 (thirty-five thousand) and MVR 750,000 (seven hundred and fifty thousand).

**Production of a Narcotic Substance in Schedule 2**

120. 

(a) Except with a written permit from the Ministry and in accordance with the regulations made under this Act, the production of a narcotic substance in Schedule 2 is an offense.

(b) Except with a written permit from the Ministry and in accordance with the regulations made under this Act, attempting to produce a narcotic substance in Schedule 2 or aiding and abetting the production of such a substance, or participating in any form in the production of such a substance, is an offense.

(c) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term between 10 (ten) years and 15 (fifteen) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand) and MVR 1,000,000 (one million).

(d) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (b) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term between 7 (seven) years and 11 (eleven) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 35,000 (thirty-five thousand) and MVR 750,000 (seven hundred and fifty thousand).

**Causing the Introduction of a Narcotic Substance in Schedule 2**

121. 

(a) It is an offense to commit any of the following acts.

(1) To introduce or cause the introduction of a narcotic substance in Schedule 2, without a prescription, into the body of another person with their consent or knowledge, through any means;

(2) To introduce or cause the introduction of a narcotic substance in Schedule 2, without a prescription, into the body of a person without their consent or knowledge, or while their own will is impaired, through any means.

(b) A person who commits an offense referred to in sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 3 (three) years.

(c) A person who commits an offense referred to in sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 7 (seven) years.

**Obtaining Narcotic Drugs by Altering a Prescription**

122. 

(a) It is an offense to alter or make an addition or deletion to a prescription in order to obtain a narcotic substance in Schedule 2.

(b) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 3 (three) years.

**CHAPTER EIGHTEEN**

**OTHER OFFENSES RELATED TO NARCOTIC DRUGS**

**Narcotic Drugs not Included in Schedule 1 and Schedule 2**

123. 

(a) Notwithstanding that it is not a narcotic substance in Schedule 1 or Schedule 2, it is an offense to use any substance for the purpose of intoxication.

(b) Alcohol is not included in the substances referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article.

(c) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 1 (one) year.

**Production of a Means for the Production of Narcotic Drugs**

124. 

(a) A person who commits any of the following acts, knowing that it is for the purpose of using, peddling, or trafficking in narcotic drugs, or having an opportunity to believe that it is for the purpose of committing such an offense, commits an offense.

(1) To produce or prepare a substance in Schedule 3;

(2) To possess a substance in Schedule 3;

(3) To deliver, supply, or give a substance in Schedule 3 to another person;

(4) To import a substance in Schedule 3 into the Maldives or to export such a substance from the Maldives.

(b) A person who commits an offense from among the offenses set out in sub-paragraphs (1) to (4) of paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term between 3 (three) years and 5 (five) years.

(c) The importation into the Maldives of a substance in Schedule 3, under a permit issued in accordance with the regulations made under this Act, or the possession of a substance imported into the Maldives under such a permit by a person who has that permit, shall not be considered an offense under this Article.

**Refusal to Provide Urine**

125. 

(a) A person who refuses to provide urine when a police officer requests them to do so under paragraph (a) of Article 163 of this Act, in order to test their urine for the use of a narcotic substance on suspicion of having used such a substance, commits an offense.

(b) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 1 (one) year.

**Refusal to Provide a Body Sample or Fingerprint or Photograph**

126. 

(a) If a person receiving treatment from a treatment center objects without a reasonable cause to having their fingerprint taken or a photograph taken, that person commits an offense.

(b) If a person receiving treatment from a treatment center objects without a reasonable cause to having their body sample taken, that person commits an offense.

(c) If a person receiving treatment from a treatment center objects without a reasonable cause to providing a sample of their urine, that person commits an offense.

(d) If a person receiving treatment from a treatment center objects without a reasonable cause to clarifying the information requested from them, that person commits an offense.

(e) A person who commits an offense set out in paragraphs (a) to (d) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 (three) months.

**Offense Committed by the Owner of a Place or Vehicle in Relation to the Trafficking of Narcotic Drugs**

127. 

(a) It is an offense for the owner of a house, building, or vehicle, or a part of a house, building, or vehicle, or the person renting that place or vehicle, or the person supervising that place or vehicle, or the person residing in that place or vehicle, or the person responsible for that place or vehicle, to give permission or to permit, knowing or having the opportunity to believe that it is for the purpose of illegally trafficking, peddling, or producing a narcotic substance in Schedule 1 or a narcotic substance in Schedule 2, or for doing any of those things.

(b) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 10 (ten) years.

**Offense Committed by the Owner of a Land, Building, or Vehicle in Relation to the Use of Narcotic Drugs**

128. 

(a) It is an offense for the owner of a land, building, place, or vehicle that is not a residence but is used by people or where people enter and exit, or the person renting that place or vehicle, or the person supervising that place or vehicle, or the person residing in that place or vehicle, or the person responsible for that place or vehicle, to give permission or to permit, knowing or having the opportunity to believe that a person or persons are using or introducing into their body or are about to do any of those things, a narcotic substance in Schedule 1 or a narcotic substance in Schedule 2.

(b) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 2 (two) years.

**Use, Possession, and Concealment of Property and Money Obtained by Committing an Offense**

129. 

(a) It is an offense to receive, possess, or use property or money, knowing that it has been obtained by peddling or trafficking in narcotic drugs, or that it is property or money obtained as a result of committing such an act, or where there are reasons to believe that it is something obtained by committing such an offense.

(b) It is an offense to do any act to conceal the origin of property or money obtained by peddling or trafficking in narcotic drugs, or to aid in any way in bringing about any kind of change to its ownership or to change its ownership in order to absolve a person who has participated in the offense from the punishment they deserve.

(c) A person who commits an offense from among the offenses set out in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 3 (three) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 1,000,000 (one million).

**Offense of Encouragement and Incitement**

130. 

(a) It is an offense to encourage or incite the use or trafficking of narcotic drugs or to do any act to facilitate the doing of any of those things.

(b) It is an offense to write, draw, express, disclose, publish, or display for public viewing anything that encourages the use or trafficking of narcotic drugs.

(c) A person who commits an offense from among the offenses set out in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 3 (three) years.

**Selling or Buying a Substance Believing it to be a Substance in Schedule 1**

131. 

(a) It is an offense to buy any substance believing it to be a narcotic substance in Schedule 1, or to sell any substance believing or representing it to be a narcotic substance in Schedule 1, or to attempt to do such a thing.

(b) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 3 (three) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 1,000,000 (one million).

**Failure to Report Trafficking or Import or Export**

132. 

(a) It is an offense to fail to report to the Maldives Police Service, knowing that a narcotic substance in Schedule 1 is being trafficked or imported into or exported from the Maldives or that any of those things is about to be done.

(b) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of 3 (three) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 1,000,000 (one million).

**Offense Committed by a Legal Person**

133. 

(a) If an act that is determined to be an offense in this Act is committed by a legal person, or if that act is committed with the consent of or with the knowledge of a member of the board of directors of that legal person or the person entrusted with the responsibility of administering that person, the person who committed that act and the legal person to which they belong commit an offense.

(b) A person who commits an offense referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be punished by a fine of an amount between MVR 1,000,000 (one million) and MVR 100,000,000 (one hundred million).

**Committing an Offense Abroad**

134. 

(a) Notwithstanding that a Maldivian citizen commits any offense determined to be an offense in this Act while abroad, they commit an offense. And the penalty that can be determined for any of those offenses is the penalty determined for that offense in this Act.

(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, a charge may be brought in the Maldives against a Maldivian citizen under paragraph (a) of this Article only if they have not been prosecuted and sentenced in the country where they committed the offense.

(c) If a Maldivian citizen commits an offense specified in this Act in a foreign country, and is tried for that offense in that country, and is convicted of the offense, and while the sentence determined by a court of that country is being executed in that country, that person is handed over to the Maldivian government under a relevant law or agreement for the execution of the sentence determined by the court of that country in the Maldives, the sentence determined by the court of that country is a sentence that can be executed in the Maldives in the same manner as a sentence determined by a court of the Maldives.

**Imposition of the Most Severe Penalties in this Act**

135. 

If an offense specified in this Act is committed by a person described below, the most severe penalty determined for that offense in this Act shall be given to the person who committed that offense.

(a) A member of a gang specified in the Act on the Prohibition of Gang Crimes (Law No. 18/2010);

(b) A person from an agency that enforces this Act;

(c) A person who gives a narcotic substance in contravention of this Act to the following parties, or a person who causes the introduction of a narcotic substance into the body of such a party in contravention of this Act, or a person who aids and abets such an act, or a person who involves such a party in the commission of an offense under this Act.

(1) A minor under the age of 18 (eighteen);

(2) A person of unsound mind;

(3) A person who is receiving treatment under this Act.

**CHAPTER NINETEEN**

**LEGAL PRESUMPTIONS**

**Use, Peddling, and Trafficking of Diamorphine by a Person Addicted to Narcotic Drugs**

136. 

(a) If a person addicted to narcotic drugs possesses 2 (two) grams or less of diamorphine, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of using it.

(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, even if a person addicted to narcotic drugs possesses 2 (two) grams or less of diamorphine, if it is proved that they have committed two of the acts set out in Article 144 of this Act, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of peddling it.

(c) If a person addicted to narcotic drugs possesses more than 2 (two) grams but not more than 4 (four) grams of diamorphine, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of peddling it, unless the state proves that they have committed two of the acts set out in Article 144 of this Act.

(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (c) of this Article, if a person addicted to narcotic drugs possesses more than 2 (two) grams but not more than 4 (four) grams of diamorphine, and it is proved that they have committed two of the acts set out in Article 144 of this Act, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of trafficking it.

(e) If a person addicted to narcotic drugs possesses more than 4 (four) grams of diamorphine, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of trafficking it.

**Use, Peddling, and Trafficking of Diamorphine by a Person Not Addicted to Narcotic Drugs**

137. 

(a) If a person not addicted to narcotic drugs possesses 2 (two) grams or less of diamorphine, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of dealing in it.

(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, if a person not addicted to narcotic drugs possesses 2 (two) grams or less of diamorphine, and it is proved that they have committed two of the acts set out in Article 144 of this Act, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of trafficking it.

(c) If a person not addicted to narcotic drugs possesses more than 2 (two) grams but not more than 4 (four) grams of diamorphine, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of dealing in it, unless the state proves that they have committed two of the acts set out in Article 144 of this Act.

(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (c) of this Article, if a person not addicted to narcotic drugs possesses more than 2 (two) grams but not more than 4 (four) grams of diamorphine, and it is proved that they have committed two of the acts set out in Article 144 of this Act, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of trafficking it.

(e) If a person not addicted to narcotic drugs possesses more than 4 (four) grams of diamorphine, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of trafficking it.

**Use, Peddling, and Trafficking of Cannabis by a Person Addicted to Narcotic Drugs**

138. 

(a) If a person addicted to narcotic drugs possesses 5 (five) grams or less of cannabis, cannabis mixture, or cannabis resin, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of using it.

(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, even if a person addicted to narcotic drugs possesses 5 (five) grams or less of cannabis, cannabis mixture, or cannabis resin, if it is proved that they have committed two of the acts set out in Article 144 of this Act, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of peddling it.

(c) If a person addicted to narcotic drugs possesses more than 5 (five) grams but not more than 14 (fourteen) grams of cannabis, cannabis mixture, or cannabis resin, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of peddling it, unless the state proves that they have committed two of the acts set out in Article 144 of this Act.

(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (c) of this Article, if a person addicted to narcotic drugs possesses more than 5 (five) grams but not more than 14 (fourteen) grams of cannabis, cannabis mixture, or cannabis resin, and it is proved that they have committed two of the acts set out in Article 144 of this Act, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of trafficking it.

(e) If a person addicted to narcotic drugs possesses more than 14 (fourteen) grams of cannabis, cannabis mixture, or cannabis resin, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of trafficking it.

**Use, Peddling, and Trafficking of Cannabis by a Person Not Addicted to Narcotic Drugs**

139. 

(a) If a person not addicted to narcotic drugs possesses 5 (five) grams or less of cannabis, cannabis mixture, or cannabis resin, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of dealing in narcotic drugs.

(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, if a person not addicted to narcotic drugs possesses 5 (five) grams or less of cannabis, cannabis mixture, or cannabis resin, and it is proved that they have committed two of the acts set out in Article 144 of this Act, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of trafficking it.

(c) If a person not addicted to narcotic drugs possesses more than 5 (five) grams but not more than 14 (fourteen) grams of cannabis, cannabis mixture, or cannabis resin, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of dealing in narcotic drugs, unless the state proves that they have committed one of the acts set out in Article 144 of this Act.

(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (c) of this Article, if a person not addicted to narcotic drugs possesses more than 5 (five) grams but not more than 14 (fourteen) grams of cannabis, cannabis mixture, or cannabis resin, and it is proved that they have committed two of the acts set out in Article 144 of this Act, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of trafficking it.

(e) If a person not addicted to narcotic drugs possesses more than 14 (fourteen) grams of cannabis, cannabis mixture, or cannabis resin, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of trafficking it.

**Use and Trafficking of Other Narcotic Substances in Schedule 1**

140. 

(a) If a person possesses 1 (one) gram or less of any narcotic substance in Schedule 1 other than diamorphine and cannabis, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of using it.

(b) If a person possesses more than 1 (one) gram of any narcotic substance in Schedule 1 other than diamorphine and cannabis, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of trafficking it.

**How to Determine the Weight of Narcotic Substances in Schedule 1**

141. 

(a) If a narcotic substance in Schedule 1 in a person's possession is not mixed with any other substance, the weight of that narcotic substance is its own weight.

(b) If a narcotic substance in Schedule 1 in a person's possession is mixed with any other substance, the weight of that narcotic substance is the total weight of all those substances.

(c) If a person possesses a mixture of a narcotic substance in Schedule 1 and a narcotic substance in Schedule 2, if the narcotic substance in Schedule 1 is more prominent in that substance, it shall be presumed for the purpose of paragraph (b) of this Article that they possess a narcotic substance in Schedule 1.

(d) If a person possesses a mixture of a narcotic substance in Schedule 1 and a narcotic substance in Schedule 2, if the narcotic substance in Schedule 2 is more prominent in that substance, it shall be presumed for the purpose of paragraph (b) of this Article that they possess a narcotic substance in Schedule 2.

(e) For the purpose of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Article, in determining the "more prominent" amount, the weight of the narcotic substances in Schedule 1 shall be determined in grams. The weight of the narcotic substances in Schedule 2 shall be determined by dosage.

**Use and Trafficking of Narcotic Substances in Schedule 2**

142. 

(a) If an authorized person possesses a narcotic substance in Schedule 2 in an amount exceeding the authorized amount, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of trafficking it.

(b) If a doctor has prescribed a narcotic substance in Schedule 2 to a person through a prescription, if they possess an amount exceeding the prescribed amount, it shall be presumed that they possess the excess amount for the purpose of trafficking it.

(c) If a person possesses a narcotic substance in Schedule 2 without a prescription, and the amount they possess is the amount that a doctor normally prescribes at one time or less, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of using it.

(d) If a person possesses a narcotic substance in Schedule 2 without a prescription, and the amount they possess is more than the amount that a doctor normally prescribes at one time, it shall be presumed that they possess that substance for the purpose of trafficking it, unless they prove otherwise.

**Presumption of Possession of a Narcotic Substance**

143. 

Unless proved otherwise, a person in any of the following circumstances shall be presumed to possess a narcotic substance.

(a) Possession of a narcotic substance on a person's person or body;

(b) Possession of a narcotic substance in the clothing worn by a person or in an accessory related to the clothing or in the jewelry worn by them;

(c) Possession of a narcotic substance in something that a person is carrying or wearing or has attached to their body;

(d) Possession of a narcotic substance in a place or thing under a person's control;

(e) Possession of a narcotic substance in a house where a person lives alone and where other people do not enter and exit, or possession of a narcotic substance in a room where a person lives alone and where other people do not enter and exit;

(f) In addition to the above, possession of a narcotic substance by a person in a manner that can be interpreted as being in their possession.

**Presumption of being a Trafficker**

144. 

Unless otherwise provided in this Act, if it can be proved that a person who deals in narcotic drugs has committed any of the following acts, they shall be presumed to be a person who traffics in narcotic drugs.

(a) Importing a narcotic substance into the Maldives or exporting a narcotic substance from the Maldives; or

(b) Working in collaboration with a group operating outside the Maldives in the trafficking of narcotic drugs; or

(c) Supplying narcotic drugs to a group on a permanent basis or a group obtaining narcotic drugs from them on a permanent basis; or

(d) Possessing an amount of money or property that is greater than what is comparable to their general living condition, and being unable to explain how it was obtained; or

(e) Aiding a gang specified in the Act on the Prohibition of Gang Crimes (Law No. 18/2010) or being aided by such a gang; or

(f) Having under their control the means to package narcotic drugs in various levels, in various amounts, and in various ways for sale in the market; or

(g) Supplying narcotic drugs as an act that is carried out in accordance with certain arrangements; or

(h) Having made a financial transaction with the intention of selling or buying narcotic drugs; or

(i) Transporting, sending, or carrying narcotic drugs from one island to another or causing any of those things to be done; or

(j) Preparing or producing narcotic drugs or planting a plant from which narcotic drugs can be obtained or growing such a plant or growing and cultivating it; or

(k) Possessing narcotic drugs in an amount that is determined in this Act to be the amount that would be presumed to be possessed by a trafficker.

**Presumption of being a Peddler**

145. 

If a person addicted to narcotic drugs deals in such drugs, they shall be presumed to be a peddler.

**Presumption that a Narcotic Substance in the Possession of One Person is also in the Possession of Another Person**

146. 

If more than one person knows and consents to the possession of narcotic drugs by a specific person among them, it shall be presumed that each of them separately possesses narcotic drugs in that amount.

**Presumption of a Room being a Room for Using Narcotic Drugs**

147. 

(a) If any kind of instrument made for the purpose of using a narcotic substance is found in a room, it shall be presumed, unless proved otherwise, that the room is a room used for the purpose of using narcotic drugs.

(b) A person who exits a room referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article, or a person who is in a room where a group is using narcotic drugs, shall be presumed, unless proved otherwise, to be a person who was in that room for the purpose of using a narcotic substance.

**Presumption Regarding Urine Test**

148. 

If the result of a urine test conducted in accordance with this Act shows that the effect of a narcotic substance is present in that person's urine, it shall be presumed, unless proved otherwise, that that person is a person who uses narcotic drugs.

**PART SIX**

**POWERS GRANTED TO LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES**

**CHAPTER TWENTY**

**SEARCH AND SEIZURE**

**Power to Search Places and Seize Things**

149. 

The police have the power to do the following in the following circumstances.

(a) If the police believe on the basis of reasonable evidence that narcotic drugs in Schedule 1 are present in a house or a place, or if the police believe that an offense specified in this Act is being committed, or if it is believed on the basis of reasonable evidence, to enter that house or that place with a court order and to search that house or place;

(b) To search and inspect the body and clothing of a person suspected of having committed an offense under this Act on the basis of reasonable evidence, without a court order;

(c) A search and inspection of a person's body and clothing under paragraph (b) of this Article shall be conducted by a police officer of the same gender;

(d) To seize, take, or retain any thing found in a house or a place in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Article, which can be used as evidence to prove an offense determined as an offense in this Act;

(e) To use dogs and other resources that need to be used, to the relevant extent, in identifying and finding narcotic drugs and in conducting the investigations that need to be conducted in accordance with this Act.

**Additional Power Granted to the Police in Law Enforcement**

150. 

(a) It is a matter permitted by this Article for a police officer to do the following in exercising the power granted to a police officer by Article 149 of this Act.

(1) To open a locked door by breaking the lock;

(2) To open a closed window by breaking the lock or by breaking the window;

(3) To inspect a thing or a place that needs to be inspected by breaking a part of the floor, or a part of the wall, or a part of the ceiling;

(4) To inspect a thing that needs to be inspected by opening or breaking a locked box or thing.

(b) The acts set out in sub-paragraphs (1) to (4) of paragraph (a) of this Article shall be done by the police only in a situation where it is not possible to do any of those things without the use of force.

(c) In exercising the power granted to a police officer by Article 149 of this Act, the conversation between people by telephone and other means of communication and the information exchanged may be listened to, reviewed, and recorded, with a court order.

(d) The Maldives Police Service shall make and administer a regulation under this Act, setting out the procedures to be followed by the police in using the powers given in this Article.

**Inspection of Vehicles**

151. 

(a) A police officer has the power to do the following in relation to vehicles arriving in or departing from the Maldives or operating in the Maldives.

(1) If it is believed on the basis of reasonable evidence that a narcotic substance in Schedule 1 or a substance in Schedule 3 is present in a vehicle, or if it is believed that an offense specified in this Act has been or is being committed in or using that vehicle, to seize that vehicle, to board that vehicle, and to search and inspect that vehicle;

(2) To search and inspect the people and things on that vehicle at that time.

(b) A customs officer has the power to do the following in relation to vehicles arriving in or departing from the Maldives.

(1) If it is believed on the basis of reasonable evidence that a narcotic substance in Schedule 1 or a substance in Schedule 3 is present in a vehicle, or if it is believed that an offense specified in this Act has been or is being committed in or using that vehicle, to seize that vehicle, to board that vehicle, and to search and inspect that vehicle;

(2) To search and inspect the people and things on that vehicle at that time.

(c) If, in searching and inspecting a vehicle under this Article, an officer acting under this Article notes that a person possesses a narcotic substance in Schedule 1 or a substance in Schedule 3, that officer has the power to seize and retain that substance. Similarly, that officer also has the power to seize such a vehicle and to prevent it from continuing its journey.

**Power and Responsibility of the Maldives Customs Service**

152. 

(a) The main responsibility for stopping the import of narcotic drugs into the Maldives through the air and sea ports of the Maldives and for stopping the export of narcotic drugs from the Maldives lies with the Maldives Customs Service.

(b) Customs officers have the power to screen, with the use of reasonable force, the bodies of persons arriving from abroad and persons departing from the Maldives who object to being screened by an X-ray machine or any other means, against their will.

**Additional Power Granted to Customs Officers**

153. 

(a) While the authorized officers of the Maldives Customs Service are fulfilling the responsibilities entrusted to that agency in this Act, if it is believed on the basis of reasonable evidence that a person has committed an offense specified in this Act, or if it is believed that such an offense may be committed, customs officers have the power to arrest and search that person without a court order.

(b) If it becomes necessary to search and inspect a person's body and clothing in using the power granted to a customs officer under paragraph (a) of this Article, that shall be done by an officer of the same gender.

(c) If a customs officer arrests any person on suspicion of an offense specified in this Act under paragraph (a) of this Article, that person shall be handed over to the Maldives Police Service without delay for the investigation of the matter.

**CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE**

**RELATED TO SPECIAL OPERATIONS**

**Controlled Delivery**

154. 

(a) A narcotic substance imported into the Maldives for the purpose of committing an offense under this Act, or a narcotic substance being transported from one place to another for the purpose of being sold within the territory of the Maldives, may be allowed to enter the Maldives and to be delivered to its destination by police officers or by customs officers under the supervision of police officers, under a written document of the Commissioner of Police or a police officer designated by them, for the purpose of identifying, apprehending, and arresting the parties trafficking in those substances, in the following circumstances.

(1) To identify who imported a narcotic substance into the Maldives;

(2) To identify who collaborated in importing a narcotic substance into the Maldives;

(3) To identify who imported or transported a narcotic substance to or from the Maldives for the purpose of trading in it;

(4) To identify who is involved in the trafficking or use of the imported or transported narcotic substance.

(b) An act in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Article is not an act for which the police officer or customs officer who conducted that act will be guilty of an offense under this Act.

(c) All documents relating to an operation as referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be recorded in writing or by audio or video.

(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of Article 89 of the Customs Act of the Maldives (Law No. 8/2011), matters related to a controlled delivery conducted for the purpose of this Article in relation to narcotic drugs shall be done in accordance with this Article. And, for the purpose of this Act, the procedure set out in paragraph (a) of Article 89 of the Customs Act of the Maldives (Law No. 8/2011) is withheld to that extent.

**Undercover Operations**

155. 

(a) In the work done to find a group that uses narcotic drugs or a group that peddles narcotic drugs or a group that traffics in narcotic drugs, a police officer, with the permission of the Commissioner of Police or a police officer designated by them, may, without revealing their identity, associate with a group that uses narcotic drugs or a group that peddles narcotic drugs or a group that traffics in narcotic drugs, and may offer to obtain or buy narcotic drugs from them.

(b) A transaction conducted by a police officer under paragraph (a) of this Article shall not be considered an offense. And in connection with such a transaction, a charge of having committed an offense under this Act shall not be brought against any of those persons.

(c) All documents relating to an operation as referred to in paragraph (b) of this Article shall be recorded in writing or by audio or video.

(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of Article 89 of the Customs Act of the Maldives (Law No. 8/2011), matters related to an undercover operation conducted for the purpose of this Article in relation to narcotic drugs shall be done in accordance with this Article. And for the purpose of this Act, the procedure set out in paragraph (b) of Article 89 of the Customs Act of the Maldives (Law No. 8/2011) is withheld to that extent.

**Evidence Obtained from Operations**

156. 

(a) A document, audio, or video obtained by customs officers or police officers from a controlled delivery activity conducted under Article 154 of this Act, or by police officers from an undercover operation conducted under Article 155 of this Act, is something that can be used as evidence to prove an offense determined as an offense in this Act.

(b) Among the things that can be used as evidence as set out in paragraph (a) of this Article, are things obtained in the following ways.

(1) Evidence obtained by the police in another country, in accordance with the laws of that country;

(2) Evidence obtained by an agency of another country, in accordance with the laws of that country, and shared with or provided to the police.

**CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO**

**RELATED TO SEIZED PROPERTY AND THINGS**

**Property and Money for which there is No Accountability**

157. 

(a) When a person suspected of an offense is questioned about how a particular property or money identified in the investigation of an offense of dealing in, peddling, or trafficking in narcotic drugs, or importing into or exporting from the Maldives of narcotic drugs was obtained, it is a matter that this Act makes mandatory for them to clarify and state how that property or money was obtained.

(b) If it is not stated in the investigation in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Article how a particular property or money identified in the investigation of an offense from among the offenses set out in paragraph (a) of this Article was obtained, that property or money shall be considered as property or money obtained illegally, and the police have the power to retain that property or money as evidence related to the case until the trial of the offense of which they are suspected is concluded in a particular way.

(c) If the money that the police wish to retain under this Article is in a bank account in the name of the person suspected of the offense or a person or party connected to them, the police have the power to order that bank to stop transactions from that account until the trial of the offense of which they are suspected is concluded in a particular way.

(d) If an order is made to stop transactions from an account under paragraph (c) of this Article, that order shall remain in force for a period of 15 (fifteen) days from the date of the order. An order to stop transactions from such an account for a period longer than that shall be made under a court order.

**Seizure of Property and Money Obtained by Committing an Offense**

158. 

(a) The narcotic drugs, instruments, and the property and money obtained from the act of the offense used to commit an offense specified in this Act may be seized.

(b) If a person is suspected of dealing in, peddling, or trafficking in narcotic drugs, or importing into or exporting from the Maldives of narcotic drugs, or if a charge of such an offense is brought against a person, the court shall order the retention of the property, money, and things suspected of having been obtained by committing that offense until that case is concluded by the court in a particular way, or to prevent that thing from leaving their custody, or to not dispose of that thing in any way, or to keep that thing in the custody of a specific party.

(c) If a person is suspected of dealing in, peddling, or trafficking in narcotic drugs, or importing into or exporting from the Maldives of narcotic drugs, the police have the power to retain the money, property, and things suspected of having been obtained by committing that offense, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Article, after applying to the court for an order as described in that Article, and until the court decides on that matter in a particular way.

**Things Seized under the Act**

159. 

(a) If anything is seized under this Act, the party that seized it shall give written notice of the seizure of that thing to its owner.

(b) If the thing was seized in the presence of the person suspected of committing the offense or in the presence of the owner of the thing or in the presence of an agent of the owner, or if the thing is something that was seized while on a vehicle, if the thing was seized in the presence of the master or captain of that vehicle, the notice referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article need not be given.

**Responsibility to Prove that it is Not Property Obtained by Committing an Offense**

160. 

Property and money suspected of being property and money obtained by committing an offense shall be considered for the purpose of this Act as property and money obtained by committing an offense, unless it is proved that that property and money were obtained in another way.

**How to Deal with Property Confiscated by the State**

161. 

The manner of dealing with money or property confiscated by the state under this Act shall be set out in the regulations made under the Public Finance Act (Law No. 3/2006).

**How to Deal with Things Retained as Evidence**

162. 

(a) Narcotic drugs retained by the Maldives Police Service or the Maldives Customs Service in connection with an offense specified in this Act shall be destroyed in the manner set out in the regulations made under this Act.

(b) The manner of dealing with narcotic drugs retained by the Maldives Police Service or the Maldives Customs Service for use as evidence in connection with an offense specified in this Act until they are destroyed, and the manner of dealing with other things retained by those two agencies for use as evidence, shall be set out in the regulations made under this Act.

(c) The regulation referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Article shall be made and administered by the Prosecutor General.

**CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE**

**GRANTING OF SOME POWERS AND EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION**

**Urine Testing**

163. 

(a) A police officer may request a person suspected of using a narcotic substance to provide a sample of their urine in order to test it for narcotic drugs.

(b) Every sample obtained under paragraph (a) of this Article shall be divided into two parts, those two parts shall be sealed separately, and after a separate seal is placed on each of them, the following shall be done with regard to them.

(1) To hand over one of the two parts to the Maldives Police Service for testing;

(2) To hand over the second part to an agency authorized under the regulations made under this Act for testing.

(c) The circumstances in which police officers may request a person to provide their urine under this Article, and the procedures for the transportation of a sample of a person's urine after it has been obtained for testing, and the manner of conducting the test, shall be set out in the regulations made under this Act.

(d) The arrangements that need to be made for the testing of the test in sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph (b) of this Article by the agency referred to in that sub-paragraph shall be made by the National Drug Agency within 18 (eighteen) months from the date of commencement of this Act.

(e) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this Article, the procedures set out in that sub-paragraph shall be commenced from the date on which the arrangements referred to in paragraph (d) of this Article are made by the National Drug Agency within the period specified in that sub-paragraph. And until that date, the testing of samples of urine obtained for testing for narcotic drugs shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure that was in effect at the time of the commencement of this Act.

**Exchange of Intelligence Information**

164. 

(a) A procedure for the exchange of intelligence information received by the Maldives Police Service and the Maldives Customs Service regarding persons who commit offenses specified in this Act and persons who plan to commit offenses shall be established in writing within 45 (forty-five) days from the date of commencement of this Act.

(b) The procedure referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article or the information exchanged under that procedure is not something that can be disclosed in any circumstance, except to a person designated for that purpose by the Maldives Police Service and the Maldives Customs Service.

**CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR**

**TAKING OF PHOTOGRAPHS AND SAMPLES**

**Interpretation of Some Words and Phrases in this Chapter**

165. 

For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and phrases are given the meanings given below to those words and phrases.

(a) "Body Sample" refers to a blood sample or a sample of hair taken from the head or a sample of saliva from a person's mouth or a sample taken from under the fingernails using a swab.

(b) "DNA" refers to deoxyribonucleic acid.

(c) "DNA information" refers to the genetic information obtained from DNA analysis conducted using a body sample.

(d) "Fingerprint" refers to the print of a finger of the hand or foot.

(e) "Internal Sample" refers to a sample taken by inserting something into the body.

(f) "Photograph" refers to any photograph that shows a person's face or a part of their body.

(g) "Internal Photograph" refers to an X-ray, scan, or any other photograph that shows the inside of the body.

**Use of Things Obtained under this Chapter as Evidence**

166. 

A photograph and fingerprint taken and DNA information obtained in accordance with this Chapter, and the various reports prepared based on them, are evidence that can be accepted as valid evidence in a court of law if it is a document issued after being signed by the party who prepared that report.

**Power to Take Samples and Photographs**

167. 

(a) The Superintendent of a treatment center or an analyst authorized by them or a police officer has the power to do the following.

(1) To take the fingerprint of a person receiving treatment from the center;

(2) To take a body sample of a person receiving treatment from the center;

(3) To take an internal photograph of a person receiving treatment from the center;

(4) To make a separate identification of a sample taken under this Article, to prepare the first report related to that sample, and to send it to the Superintendent of the treatment center or the Drug Court.

(b) A police officer, or the Superintendent of the center or an analyst authorized by them, may use reasonable force to take a photograph, or to take a fingerprint, or to take a body sample under this Article.

**Refusal to Provide Samples and to be Photographed**

168. 

A person receiving treatment from a treatment center shall not do the following.

(a) Object to having their fingerprint taken and a photograph taken;

(b) Object to having their body sample taken;

(c) Object to providing a sample of their urine;

(d) Object to clarifying the information requested from them.

**Additional Rules for Taking Body Samples**

169. 

(a) A body sample shall be taken by a licensed medical doctor or with the assistance of a licensed healthcare provider.

(b) Before taking a body sample, the Superintendent or an analyst authorized by them shall ensure that the sample will not pose any danger to the life or body of the person from whom the sample is taken.

(c) If a body sample of a person is taken, that fact shall be in writing. And that document shall state whether the sample was taken with their consent or not, and who took that sample.

(d) If a body sample is taken, that sample shall be sent to a technician of a laboratory approved by the Ministry, in order to obtain an analysis report.

**Use of DNA Information**

170. 

Information stored as DNA information may be used for the following purposes.

(a) To compare with the DNA information obtained in connection with an offense being investigated by a police officer;

(b) To compare with the DNA information obtained under this Act for use as evidence in a court hearing related to that offense.

**Retention of Photographs, Fingerprints, and Information**

171. 

The Drug Court shall do the following in relation to the matters in this Chapter.

(a) To maintain a register and keep a record, through a computer or any other means, of the internal photographs, fingerprints, and information taken under sub-paragraphs (1) and (3) of paragraph (a) of Article 167 of this Act;

(b) To create a DNA database and to store, register, and maintain a record, through a computer or any other means, of the various DNA information obtained based on the body samples taken under sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph (a) of Article 167 of this Act.

**PART SEVEN**

**MISCELLANEOUS**

**CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE**

**NATIONAL FUND FOR DRUG CONTROL**

**Establishment of the National Fund for Drug Control**

172. 

The government shall, within 60 (sixty) days from the date of commencement of this Act, establish a fund by the name of "National Fund for Drug Control" in accordance with the Public Finance Act (Law No. 3/2006). The following money shall be deposited into this fund.

(a) Money confiscated by the state under this Act;

(b) Money obtained from the auction of property confiscated by the state;

(c) Money donated by various parties for the work being done against narcotic drugs.

**Expenditure of the Fund's Money**

173. 

The money deposited into the fund established under Article 172 of this Act shall be spent on the work of stopping the trafficking of narcotic drugs, on improving the treatment services provided to persons addicted to narcotic drugs, and on achieving the objects of this Act.

**Governing Board of the Fund**

174. 

(a) The President shall, within 30 (thirty) days from the date of expiry of the period specified in Article 172 of this Act, appoint a governing board composed of 7 (seven) members to administer and supervise the fund referred to in Article 172 of this Act and to advise the National Drug Agency on the matters for which the fund's money will be spent.

(b) The regulations of the governing board referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be formulated by the governing board with the advice of the Minister of Finance and Treasury.

**Report on the Expenditure of the Fund's Money**

175. 

A report stating the total amount of money received by the fund referred to in Article 172 of this Act each year and the manner in which the fund's money was spent shall be prepared before the end of February of the following year and that report shall be published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

**CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX**

**MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS**

**Benefit of the Law**

176. 

(a) Unless otherwise provided in the Constitution or this Act, this Act shall apply in relation to an offense specified as an offense in this Act, from the date of commencement of this Act.

(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, if a person who is in the investigation stage of an offense that was ongoing under a law that was in effect before the commencement of this Act, or a person who is in the trial stage of such an offense, would receive a relief or a benefit if that offense were committed under this Act, they are entitled to that relief or benefit. And if the offense they committed is an offense committed under this Act, and if there is a specific procedure in this Act that must be followed in relation to them, and if that procedure gives them a relief or a benefit, they are entitled to that relief or benefit.

(c) With the commencement of this Act, if any party is required to bear a specific obligation or burden, they are not required to bear that obligation or burden in relation to an act that occurred before the commencement of this Act.

**Requesting for a Lighter Penalty**

177. 

(a) If, before a charge of an offense of using, dealing in, peddling, or trafficking in narcotic drugs is brought against a person, or if such a charge has been brought against a person, before a judgment is made in connection with that charge, they turn into a state witness and disclose to the state information that has not been previously stated or is not previously known to the state in connection with their criminal act, and if the Prosecutor General believes that that information is information that will assist law enforcement agencies in taking measures that will directly facilitate the stopping of the commission of the offense of using, peddling, dealing in, or trafficking in narcotic drugs, the Prosecutor General may request the court to reduce the penalty determined in this Act for the offense to which the charge relates by one-third in making a judgment in connection with the charge that is determined to be brought or has been brought against them.

(b) If the Prosecutor General requests the court in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Article, in making a judgment against the person against whom the charge has been brought, their penalty shall be determined at that ratio.

**Protection of Witnesses and Informants**

178. 

(a) In any stage of giving information or giving testimony in any case brought under this Act, the identity of a person who has given information to the relevant authorities of the state that a person has committed an act that is determined to be an offense under this Act shall not be disclosed.

(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, this Article does not prevent the disclosure of the name of a person if it is proved that the information they disclosed under paragraph (a) of this Article is information that they gave knowing that it was false information.

(c) If a document, book, paper, or any other thing submitted as evidence to any court hearing contains information that includes the name of the person who gives information that a person has committed an act that is determined to be an offense under this Act, or information that could identify that person, it is the duty of the court hearing that case to conceal that part or to make it invisible in order to protect that person.

(d) If a person presented by the state as a witness in a trial conducted in connection with an offense specified in this Act has received a threat of harm to their life, property, or family, or if there is a situation in which it is believed that such a danger may befall them, the witness may give testimony without revealing their identity in one of the following ways.

(1) The name and address of the witness and other information that could identify that person may be withheld from the defendant and their legal counsel, and they may give testimony from behind a screen or in a room where they cannot be seen, and with their voice altered so that their identity is not revealed. A person's testimony shall be taken in this manner in the presence of the parties in the court hearing. And the defendant shall be given the opportunity to ask questions other than questions that could identify the witness. Such testimony shall be oral evidence.

(2) If a party to the case wishes to take testimony without revealing the identity of the witness in a manner as described in this Article, the court may grant permission to take testimony in that manner, upon a written application to the court before the commencement of the hearing of the case.

**Execution of More Than One Sentence**

179. 

If a person is convicted of an offense that is determined to be an offense in this Act, and more than one sentence is determined against them, those sentences shall be executed against them consecutively, one after the other, unless the court that determined the sentence decides otherwise. And the first of those sentences to be executed shall be the most severe sentence in proportion.

**Conducting Tests through Agencies of Other Countries**

180. 

(a) This Act does not prevent an agency that has the power to conduct the tests that need to be conducted under this Act from having an agreement of cooperation with another country in conducting those tests, or from conducting those tests from such a country under such an agreement. However, those tests shall be conducted in that manner, in a way that does not restrict the procedures determined in this Act in relation to the matter.

(b) The result of the tests conducted in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Article is something that can be used as evidence.

**Compensation**

181. 

(a) If, in seizing a person's property and confiscating it for the state, or in entering a person's building and searching a place, or in detaining a person under this Act, any harm is caused to any person or property by a law enforcement agency in a manner that it should not have acted, the state will not provide compensation for that harm. However, if such harm was caused by the negligence of a law enforcement agency, or as a result of an act done by the law enforcement agency in contravention of the law and regulations, or with the intention of causing harm to a person, compensation for such harm shall be provided.

(b) In a situation where compensation for harm must be provided under this Article, the amount of compensation to be provided shall be determined by the court.

**Revision of the Jurisdiction of Magistrate Courts**

182. 

(a) Notwithstanding that the jurisdiction of the magistrate courts is determined in that manner in the Courts Act of the Maldives (Law No. 22/2010), every magistrate court shall have the jurisdiction to hear cases related to other offenses specified in this Act, except for the cases that the Drug Court has jurisdiction to hear under this Act, and cases of offenses for which a penalty of imprisonment for a term of 5 (five) years or more is determined in this Act, from the date on which the Drug Court commences its functions in accordance with paragraph (a) of Article 34 of this Act.

(b) Upon the expiry of 30 (thirty) months from the date of commencement of this Act, the application of paragraph (a) of this Article shall come to an end, and the magistrate courts shall have the jurisdiction to hear all cases related to the offenses specified in this Act, except for the cases that the Drug Court has jurisdiction to hear under this Act.

(c) This Act does not prevent the Prosecutor General from bringing charges of the offenses specified in this Act in a magistrate court, the Criminal Court, or the Juvenile Court determined by the Prosecutor General, in a manner that does not detract from the jurisdiction granted to the magistrate courts under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Article to hear cases of the offenses specified in this Act, and the territorial jurisdiction granted to those courts.

(d) In hearing cases of the offenses specified in this Act, the magistrate courts have the jurisdiction vested in the Criminal Court under the Courts Act of the Maldives (Law No. 22/2010).

(e) For the purpose of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Article, the Courts Act of the Maldives (Law No. 22/2010) shall be deemed to be amended through this Act to the extent required for that purpose.

**Funds Required for the Establishment of Treatment Centers**

183. 

The money that is absolutely necessary to establish the centers that need to be established under Article 47 of this Act and to establish the facilities that need to be established under that Article shall be submitted to the People's Majlis by the government and passed within 120 (one hundred and twenty) days from the date of commencement of this Act. And the relevant authority of the government shall establish the treatment centers specified in this Act within the period specified in this Act and make arrangements for those places to provide services.

**Making Regulations Regarding Substances in Schedule 2 and Schedule 3**

184. 

(a) The Ministry shall make and administer regulations on the following matters.

(1) The procedures for importing a narcotic substance in Schedule 2 into the Maldives;

(2) The conditions and procedures for licensing persons who wish to import a narcotic substance in Schedule 2 into the Maldives;

(3) The procedures for registering buildings or places prepared for the purpose of importing a narcotic substance in Schedule 2 into the Maldives, or for exporting from the Maldives, or for producing, or for processing, or for distributing, or for storing, or for delivering to a person or party;

(4) The procedures regarding the documents related to a narcotic substance in Schedule 2;

(5) The documents to be maintained and the information to be given in relation to a narcotic substance in Schedule 2, and the procedures for reviewing and studying those documents;

(6) The manner of labeling the packaging containing a narcotic substance in Schedule 2.

(b) The National Drug Agency shall make and administer regulations on the following matters.

(1) The procedures for importing a substance in Schedule 3 into the Maldives;

(2) The conditions and procedures for licensing persons who wish to import a substance in Schedule 3 into the Maldives;

(3) The procedures for registering buildings or places prepared for the purpose of importing a substance in Schedule 3 into the Maldives, or for exporting from the Maldives, or for producing, or for processing, or for distributing, or for storing, or for delivering to a person or party;

(4) The procedures regarding the documents required for the transaction of a substance in Schedule 3;

(5) The documents to be maintained and the information to be given in relation to a substance in Schedule 3, and the procedures for reviewing and studying those documents;

(6) The manner of labeling the packaging containing a substance in Schedule 3.

**Making and Administering Regulations**

185. 

Unless otherwise expressly provided in this Act, the regulations that need to be made to administer this Act shall be made and administered by the National Drug Agency.

**Commencement of the Act**

186. 

This Act shall commence on the date on which it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

**Repealed Law**

187. 

With the commencement of this Act, the Drugs Act (Law No. 17/77) is repealed.

**Procedure to be Followed in Case of a Difference in Procedure**

188. 

If, after the commencement of this Act, general principles of criminal procedure are determined in a law, in case of any difference between the procedures set out in this Act and the procedures determined in such a law, priority shall be given to the procedures that are more favorable to the rights of the person suspected of an offense under this Act.

**Schedules**

189. 

The three schedules referred to in this Act and which are attached to this Act are an important part of this Act. This Act is complete with those three schedules. When this Act refers to a schedule from among those three schedules, that reference is to an important part of this Act.

**Interpretation**

190. 

Unless the context in which that phrase is used in this Act clearly indicates otherwise:

(a) "Guardian" refers to a person's legal guardians and statutory guardians.

(b) "Licensed Medical Doctors" refers to, in the Maldives, medical doctors licensed by the Ministry, and persons licensed to dispense the drugs in Schedule 2. And outside the Maldives, to medical doctors licensed to practice medicine by the relevant official authorities of that country.

(c) "Cannabis" refers to a plant from among the plants of the cannabis family or a part of such a plant, by whatever name it may be called.

(d) "Cannabis Mixture" refers to a preparation prepared in a way that contains any amount of tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabinol.

(e) "Cannabis Resin" refers to a substance containing any amount of tetrahydrocannabinol.

(f) "Dealing in Cannabis" includes the sale, giving, transporting from one place to another for the purpose of trade, arranging for transport, delivery, and offering or agreeing to do any of the foregoing.

(g) "Another court that has jurisdiction over the matter" refers to any court, other than the Drug Court, that has jurisdiction to hear cases of offenses related to narcotic drugs.

(h) "Customs Officer" refers to persons entrusted with the position of an officer of the Maldives Customs Service, who are authorized by that Service to perform the duties that need to be performed in enforcing this Act.

(i) "Room" includes rooms in residential places and in other places.

(j) "Production" refers to, in relation to a narcotic substance in Schedule 1, the production of a specific narcotic substance and the transformation of the effect of a substance to its most complete form using specific stages, and the change of the type of one narcotic substance to another.

(k) "Imprisonment for life" refers to imprisonment for 25 (twenty-five) years.

(l) "Minister" refers to the minister who is at the time entrusted with the responsibility of implementing the policies related to stopping the use of narcotic drugs.

(m) "Ministry" refers to the ministry that is at the time entrusted with the responsibility of implementing the policies related to stopping the use of narcotic drugs.

(n) "Property" includes immovable property and movable property, and the ownership of such property, and any other right, interest, and benefit that has arisen or arises in connection with such property.

(o) "Police Officer" refers to a person who is included in the meaning given to that phrase in the Police Act (Law No. 5/2008).

(p) "Dealing in Diamorphine" includes the sale, giving, transporting from one place to another for the purpose of trade, arranging for transport, delivery, and offering or agreeing to do any of the foregoing.

(q) "A narcotic substance in Schedule 1" refers to a substance specified in Schedule 1 or any product produced by including any of those substances.

(r) "A narcotic substance in Schedule 2" refers to any substance used as a drug specified in Schedule 2 or any substance produced by including any of those substances.

(s) "A substance in Schedule 3" refers to the substances specified in that schedule as being able to be used to produce or prepare a narcotic substance in Schedule 1 or Schedule 2.

(t) "Prescription" refers to a prescription for a drug written by a licensed medical doctor for the use of substances used as drugs, in an amount determined by the Ministry of Health and Family as the amount that a doctor normally prescribes.

**SCHEDULE 1**

**SCHEDULE 2**

**SCHEDULE 3**

