Education Act
Chapter One
Introduction and Title

1. Introduction and Name

(a) This is the law that establishes the necessary legal framework to provide in the fullest manner the right to education guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives, determines the principles upon which the Maldivian education system is built, determines the rights of students and teachers in relation to learning, determines the responsibilities of the state, parents, and teachers, and states other general rules and principles related to the provision of education in the Maldives.[1]

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Education Act".[1]

2. Purpose

The main purposes of this Act are stated below.

(a) To establish a system in the Maldives that guarantees the right to education for children and adults and protects the rights of teachers, with due regard to the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives, the religion of Islam, the international Convention on the Rights of the Child to which the Maldives is a party, and other relevant international treaties.[1]

(b) To determine the responsibilities of the state, parents, guardians, and teachers in guaranteeing the right to education for children and to establish the procedures to be followed if those parties fail to fulfill their responsibilities.[1]

(c) To establish an environment in the Maldives that provides quality education, training, and Islamic upbringing with equality and fairness.[1]

(d) To establish an education system that teaches the Islamic faith and Islamic upbringing, and that teaches the importance of and empowers respect for human rights in a manner that does not conflict with Islamic Sharia and creed, and the importance of maintaining peace and friendship among all people.[1]

(e) To pave the way for building creative and capable students who are aware of their national duties and can play a responsible role in society.[1]
Chapter Two
Rights and Duties

3. The Right to Education

(a) Every person living in the Maldives has the right to education on an equal basis, without any discrimination.[1]

(b) The right to education, in addition to being a separate human right in itself, is a right that is essential for access to other human rights.

(c) For the purpose of this Article, the right to education is a lifelong right, without discrimination of any kind, regardless of a specific age or gender, including the following.

(1) The right to learn preschool education, primary education, secondary education, and higher secondary education.[1]

(2) The right to have equal opportunity to attain preschool education, primary education, secondary education, and higher secondary education.[1]

(3) The right for every person to have opportunities for lifelong learning and continuing education.

4. The Right to Education as a Lifelong Pursuit

(a) As the right to education is a lifelong right, a system shall be established in the Maldives that provides learning opportunities for people of all ages, even after completing education within the formal education system.

(b) The education provided through the system referred to in subsection (a) of this Article shall include the following.

(1) Basic education and training programs aimed at those who have not had the opportunity to receive education through the formal education system.

(2) Education and training programs aimed at those who have not completed secondary education.

(3) Opportunities to further develop existing skills.

5. Providing Technical and Vocational Education Through the School System

(a) As technical and vocational education is a part of the right to education and is also linked to the right to work, the right to education can only be fully guaranteed by also guaranteeing the right to learn technical and vocational education.[2] Therefore, this Act guarantees the right to technical and vocational education through the school education system.[2]

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this Article, the Maldivian school education system shall be designed in a manner that provides technical and vocational education.[2]

(c) The purpose of providing technical and vocational education within the school system is to facilitate the following.

(1) To provide opportunities for the different abilities of children and to build work-friendly students through technical and vocational education.

(2) To familiarize children with the fields of technical and vocational skills that are essential for the nation's development.

(3) To instill in students the mindset of viewing the vocational field as a valuable and nationally beneficial area.

6. Guaranteeing the Right to Education for Children

(a) In order to access the right to education stated in Article 3 of this Act, the following are guaranteed to every child by this Act.

(1) The right to receive education from the age of 4 (four) years until the age of 18 (eighteen) years, or from preschool until the completion of grade 12 (twelve).[1]

(2) The right to be protected from receiving any form of inhumane or cruel punishment.[1]

(3) The right to have the opportunity to learn in a safe environment, protected from acts such as bullying and various forms of abuse and violence.[1]

(4) The right of children with disabilities to participate in the formal education system and to receive education through that system.[1]

(5) The right to have access through the education system to opportunities to participate in programs needed to advance modern technology and special skills, and the right to have the path open for participation in extracurricular activities in addition to studies.

(6) The right to regularly know the extent of the child's progress in their studies.

(7) The right to receive the care of parents and the assistance of the state in their studies.

(b) No person shall deprive any child of the right to education.

7. The Aim of the Children's Education System

In order to guarantee the right to education for children, the Maldivian education system shall be designed based on the following principles.

(a) To develop the child's thinking, personality, skills, and mental and physical abilities to their fullest extent.[1]

(b) To formulate education policies in a manner that includes all children and in a way that there is no discrimination between the two genders in teaching.

(c) To pave the way for producing capable students who are aware of their religious and national duties and can play a responsible role in society.

(d) To uphold and promote the independence and sovereignty of the Maldives, the unity of the people, and the Maldivian national identity and honor.

(e) To live in peace and friendship among everyone in general.[1]

(f) To develop the child's individuality, skills, and mental and physical abilities to their fullest potential.[1]

(g) To respect and uphold human rights.[1]

(h) To respect the child's parents, the child's cultural identity, language, national customs, and the thoughts and ideas of others.[1]

(i) To instill in the child the importance of accepting differences between other races and others and oneself, respecting others, and maintaining peace and friendship among all.

(j) To protect and sustain the environment, living species, and natural beauty and resources, and to refrain from acts that pollute the environment and acts that destroy the natural environment.

(k) To familiarize children with technology and to teach them to use the internet safely.

(l) To maintain the child's personal hygiene and the cleanliness of their living space and surrounding environment.[1]

8. Making the Maldivian Education System an Inclusive Education System for Children with Special Educational Needs

(a) The state shall provide opportunities for children with special educational needs to receive education without discrimination, just like other children, in preschools, primary schools, secondary schools, and higher secondary schools.[1]

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this Article, providing the opportunity for children with special educational needs to receive education without discrimination shall be considered as having equality in accessing opportunities, in availing of opportunities, and in achieving results from opportunities.

(c) It is the responsibility of the state to establish adequate facilities in schools and to build teachers and staff who can interact with children with special educational needs, identify their needs, and provide a good standard of education to achieve the objectives stated in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article.

(d) In order to achieve the objectives stated in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article, the Ministry shall, within 3 (three) months of this Act coming into force, determine and publicly announce a policy stating the rights to be guaranteed, the facilities to be provided, and the standards to be maintained in providing opportunities for and educating children with special educational needs in Maldivian schools.

(e) The policy referred to in subsection (d) of this Article shall be a policy that takes into account the child's disability at the earliest possible age of the child, and is designed in a way that allows the child to receive education to the best possible standard with that disability, without discrimination from other children, upholding the principles stated in Article 35 of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives, Law No. 8/2010 (Disability Act), and the international Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to which the Maldives is a party, and facilitating the fulfillment of the state's obligations under that Convention.

(f) An education system designed in a way that denies opportunities to children with special educational needs and/or creates inequality between such children and other children shall be considered discrimination based on disability.

(g) The facilities used to provide education to children, the places of learning, and the educational centers shall be built and organized in a way that is easily accessible to children with special educational needs.

9. The Duty of the State

In order to guarantee the right to education stated in Article 3 of this Act, it is the duty of the state to do the following.

(a) To facilitate adequate facilities and opportunities to provide preschool education, primary education, secondary education, and higher secondary education in a manner that includes all children.[1]

(b) To develop an adequate system to achieve the matters stated in subsection (a) of this Article, and to make arrangements for every child to be taught.

(c) To ensure that every child participates in an education or skills training program until they complete the age of 18 (eighteen) years.

(d) Notwithstanding subsection (c) of this Article, children who complete higher secondary education before reaching the age of 18 (eighteen) may be exempted from that clause.

(e) To develop an adequate system for teaching modern technology, vocational skills, and craftsmanship, and to make arrangements for equal opportunities to be available.

(f) To build a generation that loves the religion of Islam and respects the Dhivehi language and Maldivian customs through the education system.

(g) To develop a system that teaches physical fitness, wellness, and sports skills, and to facilitate those opportunities on an equal basis.

(h) To encourage regular school attendance by children and to take necessary steps to reduce the number of children who drop out of school without completing their education.

(i) To build a generation that is self-confident, takes initiative, and is creative through the education system.

10. The Responsibility of Parents and Guardians

The responsibilities of parents and guardians in relation to teaching children are stated below.

(a) To enroll children of compulsory education age in school and to send children to school regularly.[3]

(b) To fulfill the basic needs of children, including ensuring that the child has received proper nutrition, is in good health, and has had enough sleep when going to school.

(c) To cooperate with the children's teachers and the school in matters related to the children's education.

(d) To encourage and empower children to become diligent and responsible members of society, and to raise children as a generation that respects the religion of Islam and has good morals.

11. The Responsibility of Students

The following responsibilities are placed upon students studying in Maldivian schools.

(a) To fully participate in the educational programs established in schools, including attending school regularly, making full use of learning opportunities, and working diligently in their studies.

(b) To respect the school rules and to maintain morals and conduct in accordance with those rules.

(c) To respect the school staff, other students, and members of the community.

(d) For the student to be accountable for their actions.
Chapter Three
Formulating and Implementing Education Policy

12. Formulating Education Policy

(a) The Minister shall formulate the education policies of the Maldives in a manner that achieves the objectives of this Act and does not contradict any principle of this Act.[1]

(b) The policies formulated by the Minister in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article shall be implemented by the Ministry and the agencies operating under the Ministry.[1]

13. The Responsibilities of the Ministry

The responsibilities to be performed by the Ministry under this Act are stated below.

(a) To implement the policies for preschool education, primary education, secondary education, higher secondary education, and non-formal education.

(b) To ensure that opportunities for formal and non-formal education are available on an equal basis.

(c) To establish a safe and secure environment in schools and to establish a system where education can be received in a safe environment.

(d) To register places of learning and to monitor their operation.

(e) To carry out the work necessary to monitor, maintain, and improve the quality of education provided in the Maldives.

(f) To plan, organize, and coordinate matters related to conducting examinations for school children.

(g) To ensure that schools conduct extracurricular activities to achieve the objectives of the national curriculum.

(h) To establish the procedure for conducting extracurricular activities by parties other than schools to achieve the objectives of the national curriculum.

(i) To ensure that programs conducted in every educational environment and platform are designed and conducted in a way that promotes the social, spiritual, and emotional well-being of students.

(j) To coordinate school-level educational programs conducted in collaboration with foreign countries and international organizations.

(k) To work in collaboration with foreign countries and international organizations to find educational opportunities for students in schools.

(l) To provide opportunities to private parties wishing to participate in providing education in accordance with established procedures.

(m) To work towards raising the standard of teachers and other professional staff working in the education sector.

(n) To raise awareness among parents and the public about the importance of education and educational policies and to work to increase their participation in these matters.

(o) To determine the academic calendar for the upcoming academic year.[4]

(p) To allocate budgets for government schools and to ensure that the budget is sufficient to implement the responsibilities of the schools.

(q) To guarantee the rights afforded by Law No. 2/2008 (Employment Act) and the regulations made thereunder to the employees working in schools.

(r) To formulate and implement regulations on the conduct of parties conducting programs related to early childhood education and care, and regulations regarding information needed by parents.

(s) To ensure that all matters stated in this Act are being implemented in a manner that achieves the purpose of this Act.[1]
Chapter Four
School Education System

14. Age for Compulsory Education

Every child living in the Maldives between the ages of 4 (four) and 16 (sixteen) years is a child for whom compulsory education is required.

15. Making Education Compulsory for Children of Compulsory Education Age

(a) It is mandatory for the parent of every child of compulsory education age to send the child to school to receive education from preschool to the end of secondary education as determined in the Maldivian education system, and to enroll the child in the stage of the Maldivian national education system designated for the child's age.[1]

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, if a child of compulsory education age completes secondary education recognized by the Maldivian national education system before reaching the age of 16 (sixteen), it will not be mandatory for that child to attend school as stated in subsection (a) of this Article.

16. Exceptional Circumstances

(a) Notwithstanding Article 15 of this Act, the Minister has the discretion to grant an exception in accordance with the regulations made under this Act to children who are unable to attend school due to their circumstances.

(b) An exception shall be granted to any child under subsection (a) of this Article only if it is in the best interest of the child.

(c) Even in cases where an exception is granted under this Article, the children in such situations must be given the right to learn under an educational program determined by the Ministry.

17. Providing Preschool Education Free of Charge

The government shall make arrangements to provide preschool education free of charge to every Maldivian child living in the Maldives.

18. Providing Primary, Secondary, and Higher Secondary Education Free of Charge

(a) The state shall provide the opportunity for every Maldivian child living in the Maldives to receive primary and secondary education free of charge.[1]

(b) After completing secondary education, the state shall provide free of charge the opportunity to receive education or training in one of the following ways to every Maldivian child living in the Maldives who so desires and fulfills the specific conditions determined by the Ministry.

(1) Higher secondary education; or[1]

(2) 2 (two) years of school education after completing grade 10 (ten).[1]

19. Providing Education to Foreign Children

(a) Every foreign child living in the Maldives has the right to preschool, primary, middle school, secondary, and higher secondary education, just like Maldivian children.[1] The opportunity to learn in schools operating in the Maldives shall be open to foreign children without any form of discrimination.[1]

(b) Notwithstanding Articles 17 and 18 of this Act, free education may be arranged for foreign children living in the Maldives under a specific policy determined by the government.[1]

20. Arranging for the Provision of Free Education

(a) The Ministry shall make arrangements to provide free education to every Maldivian child living in the Maldives as stated in Articles 17 and 18 of this Act.[1]

(b) For the purposes of Articles 17 and 18 of this Act, items such as books and stationery required for students' studies shall be provided free of charge by the Ministry on an equal basis in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.[1]

(c) In a situation where the service of a school that provides the education mentioned in Articles 17 and 18 of this Act is not available in the island where a child resides, the government shall, at its own expense, make the necessary arrangements under the regulations formulated by the Ministry to provide that education to the child in another island.

21. Religious Upbringing

In every school in the Maldives that teaches preschool, primary, secondary, and higher secondary education, every child who is a Maldivian citizen shall be taught the Islamic creed and Islamic upbringing.[1]

22. Dhivehi Language

The Dhivehi language shall be taught in all schools in the Maldives that teach preschool, primary, secondary, and higher secondary education.[1]

23. Establishing an Environment Conducive to Good Health

An environment conducive to good health shall be established in all schools at all stages of the Maldivian education system. Accordingly, at least the following programs, services, and facilities shall be available in every school.[1]

(a) To establish an environment where the child's brain development is monitored in relation to the child's age, and where teaching can be done in a manner appropriate to the child's ability.

(b) To establish an environment that promotes emotional, social, and spiritual well-being, and to have the necessary staff and facilities for this in schools.

(c) To plan and conduct sports activities, social activities, environmental activities, and religious activities in addition to studies, in a manner appropriate to the age and developing abilities of the children.

(d) To establish a safe and secure environment free from things like bullying and harassment and other forms of abuse.

(e) For schools to be clean places, and to have a robust system in place to provide protection from diseases.

(f) For every government school to provide breakfast.

(g) To conduct activities in schools that help students become healthy and physically fit.

(h) For every school to be a school that conducts sports activities appropriate to the age of its students.

(i) To establish a system for monitoring the health of students.

(j) To establish a system for identifying students who need assistance and providing them with the necessary help.[1]

24. School Curriculum and Examinations

(a) In order to achieve the educational objectives stated in this Act, the Ministry shall formulate and publicly publish a school curriculum that includes all stages of school education.[1]

(b) The procedures related to the formulation of the school curriculum referred to in subsection (a) of this Article shall be stated in the regulations made under this Act.

(c) The Ministry shall establish a system for conducting public examinations to test and assess the subjects taught at various stages in schools.

(d) The examinations taken by students completing secondary and higher secondary education shall be international or of an international standard.

(e) In order to achieve the objectives stated in subsection (c) of this Article, a system for conducting public examinations shall be included in the regulations made under this Act.

25. School Attendance

(a) Every child of compulsory education age must attend school regularly, unless there is a valid reason.

(b) The circumstances under which one can be absent from school with a valid reason include the following.

(1) Inability to attend school due to illness.

(2) Inability to attend school because of having to participate in activities determined by the school at a time when one is required to be at school for studies.

(3) Being absent from school with the school's permission due to another valid reason for being unable to attend school.

(c) For the purpose of this Article, the meaning of attending school also includes attending extracurricular activities held by the school.

26. Prohibition of Employment

Children of the age specified in this Act as the age for compulsory education shall not be sent to work. However, this Article does not prevent a child from going to a job suitable for their age with the permission of their guardian for the purpose of obtaining training related to education and upbringing, in a manner not contrary to Law No. 19/2019 (Child Rights Protection Act).[1]

27. Prohibition of Inhumane Punishment

No person from a school shall give any child cruel and inhumane punishment, or punishment that causes physical or mental harm, whether as a disciplinary measure or otherwise.[1] And no person from a school shall inflict any form of abuse on a child.[1] Furthermore, while the child is under the care of the school, no other person shall be allowed to do such a thing to the child.[1]

28. Formulation of Safety and Conduct Rules

(a) Every school in the Maldives shall formulate and make public a safety and conduct code to be followed by the students studying in that school, the persons working in that school, and persons attending the school for various purposes.[1]

(b) The school's safety rules shall include the steps to be taken for the safety of the children studying in the school, the teachers, and other parties, the steps to be taken to prevent a situation that could pose a danger to the safety of any of those parties, and the immediate steps and procedures to be followed if such a situation arises.[1]

(c) The code of conduct for teachers and other school staff shall state the principles they must follow, things they must not do in relation to students, and the procedures to be followed in case of violation of the code of conduct.[1]

(d) The Ministry shall formulate a policy stating the main matters to be included in the rules that schools must formulate under this Article.[1]
Chapter Five
Operation of Schools

29. Schools

The schools operating in the Maldives are divided into the following 4 (four) types.

(a) Government schools.[1]

(b) Private schools.[1]

(c) Public-Private Partnership (PPP) schools.[1]

(d) Community schools.[1]

30. Government Schools

(a) Government schools shall be operated under the supervision of the Ministry and in accordance with the principles laid down in this Act and the regulations made under this Act.[1]

(b) The regulations made under subsection (a) of this Article shall state the manner of establishing government schools, the manner of naming such schools, the procedure to be followed in admitting and dismissing children from school, the manner of operating the school, the manner of appointing and dismissing staff to the school, the principles to be followed in merging more than one school, the principles to be followed if a school has to be closed temporarily or permanently, and all other principles related to the operation of government schools.

31. Private Schools, Public-Private Partnership Schools, and Community Schools

(a) Private schools, Public-Private Partnership schools, and Community schools shall be operated in the Maldives after being registered with the Ministry in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

(b) The regulations made under this Article shall include the following matters.

(1) The conditions for registration and the procedures to be followed in relation thereto.

(2) The facilities and services that must be available in the school.

(3) The principles for admitting and dismissing children from the school.

(4) The principles for determining the fees of children admitted to the school.

(5) The principles related to the programs conducted in the school.

(6) The responsibilities of the responsible parties of the school and the principles related to the operation of such schools.

32. Re-registration of Private Schools, Public-Private Partnership Schools, and Community Schools

Private schools, Public-Private Partnership schools, and Community schools that are operating under registration with the Ministry before this Act comes into force shall be re-registered under this Act within 2 (two) years of this Act coming into force.
Chapter Six
Teachers and School Principals

33. The Standard of Teachers and the Rights of Teachers

(a) Teachers working in the Maldivian education system shall be qualified and of a high standard.

(b) In addition to the matters guaranteed by the Employment Act, the Ministry shall determine in the regulations made under this Act the benefits and safety standards that will be provided to teachers.

(c) The school where a teacher works shall guarantee the benefits and protection that must be provided to teachers in accordance with the standards determined by the Ministry under subsection (b) of this Article.

34. The Responsibility of Teachers

The responsibilities of teachers are stated below.

(a) To protect the rights of students and to do everything necessary as a teacher to guarantee those rights.

(b) To encourage students to learn and to work to foster a spirit of learning in order to achieve the desired results from them.

(c) To work to improve their own skills and knowledge in order to facilitate students' achievement of the learning outcomes set for them.

(d) To regularly monitor the extent to which students are achieving the learning outcomes set for them, to identify the extent of the child's development, to assess the child's level of learning, and to review it regularly.

(e) To encourage students to practice caring for the dignity and well-being of every student, and to maintain this and to encourage every student to develop the habit of caring for the dignity and well-being of others.

(f) To regularly share with parents information about the child's development, the child's level of learning, and other information related to the child.

(g) To adhere to the principles and standards that teachers must follow.

(h) To do everything possible to maintain a safe and secure environment in the school.

(i) To perform the duties specified as the responsibilities of teachers in this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

35. The Responsibility of Principals

The responsibilities of school principals are stated below.

(a) To implement the educational policies determined by the Ministry in schools, and to plan and manage school affairs in accordance with those policies.

(b) To ensure that learning in the school proceeds according to the curriculum.

(c) To do everything possible to ensure that children attend school regularly, in accordance with the school's rules established in this regard.

(d) To share with parents information related to the students' studies and other school matters.

(e) To do what is necessary to create and maintain a safe and learning-conducive environment.

(f) To implement in the school the principles and standards determined by the Ministry under this Act.

(g) To make the most effective use of the school's human and other resources in running the school, to monitor the performance of teachers and other school staff, and to conduct professional development programs for them.

(h) To do everything necessary to provide the required assistance and cooperation to the students studying in the school.
Chapter Seven
Registration of Places of Learning and Teachers

36. Registration of Places of Learning Other Than Schools

(a) Places of learning other than schools shall be operated in the Maldives after being registered with the Ministry in accordance with the principles stated in the regulations made under this Act.

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this Article, places of learning other than schools shall be considered the following places.

(1) Baby nurseries and nurseries.

(2) Preschools and places of that level run for the purpose of early childhood education.

(3) Tuition centers.[5]

(4) Quran classes.

(5) Other places of learning specified in the regulations made under this Act.

(c) The regulations formulated by the Ministry regarding places of learning shall include the following matters.

(1) The conditions for registering places of learning and the procedures to be followed in relation thereto.

(2) The facilities and services that must be available in the places of learning.

(3) The principles for admitting and dismissing children from the places of learning.

(4) The principles for determining the fees of children admitted to the places of learning.

(5) The principles related to the programs conducted in the places of learning.

(6) The responsibilities of the responsible parties of the places of learning and the principles related to the operation of such places.

(7) The principles for revoking the registration of places of learning.

(d) Places of learning that were operating under registration before this Act came into force shall be registered in accordance with this Act within 2 (two) years from the date this Act comes into force.

(e) Places of learning that were operating without registration before this Act came into force shall be registered in accordance with this Act within 6 (six) months from the date this Act comes into force.

37. Registration of Teachers

(a) No person shall work as a teacher in any school or other place of learning operating in the Maldives without being registered under this Act. And no school shall give a teaching position to anyone other than a person so registered.

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this Article, teachers teaching in the places mentioned in Article 29 and subsection (b) of Article 36 of this Act shall be registered and obtain a license in the manner specified in the regulations made under this Act.

(c) The principle stated in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article shall not apply to a trainee working under the direct supervision of teachers.

(d) For the purpose of this Article, the meaning of teachers includes tutors, therapists, teachers, school leading teachers, supervisors, heads of departments, head teachers, and professional staff working in positions of that level, deputy principals, acting principals, principals, and professional staff working in positions of that level in the places mentioned in subsection (b) of this Article.

38. Registration and Licensing of Teachers

(a) In order to carry out all matters related to the registration of teachers, the Minister shall, within 1 (one) month of this Act coming into force, establish a board in the Ministry consisting of 5 (five) members, under the name "Teachers Registration Board".

(b) The board mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be chaired by a Registrar appointed by the Minister. The person appointed as the Registrar shall be a person working in the Ministry who holds a position at the level of Deputy Minister or higher.

(c) The board established under subsection (a) of this Article shall consist of the following persons.

(1) The Registrar.

(2) A person from the field of educational management or educational policy.

(3) A person from the field of teaching.

(4) A person from the field of curriculum development.

(5) A person from the field of child psychology or educational psychology.

(d) The board shall formulate and make public the rules and procedures for registering teachers in the Maldives and issuing licenses to teachers under subsection (a) of this Article.

(e) Teachers who are in service when this Act comes into force shall register with the board mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article and obtain a license within 2 (two) years of this Act coming into force.[4]

(f) The procedures related to the conduct of the work of the board mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be stated in the regulations made under this Act.
Chapter Eight
Maintaining the Quality of the Education System

39. Maintaining the Quality of the Education System

(a) In order to ensure the quality of the Maldivian education system, the Ministry shall establish a quality assurance system for the education system to ensure that schools and other places of learning in the Maldives are operated in accordance with this Act and the regulations, principles, and standards made under this Act, and to take necessary action in this regard.

(b) The system established under subsection (a) of this Article shall have in place arrangements for the regular inspection and evaluation of schools and places of learning.

40. Making Regulations Related to Quality Assurance

In order to achieve the objectives of Article 39 of this Act, the Ministry shall make a regulation under this Act comprising the following matters.

(a) The procedures to check whether schools and places of education are operating in accordance with the principles and standards stated in this Act.

(b) The procedures for ensuring the quality of places of education, and for ensuring that the principles and standards that must be formulated for the safety of the staff and students of such places are fulfilled, and the procedures to be followed in reviewing and ordering the amendment of the standards and principles being followed.

(c) The measures that can be taken if the orders of the Ministry are not complied with.

41. Unregistered Places

(a) If a complaint or information is received that a place of education is operating without being registered as stated in this Act, the Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry has the power to inspect such places to investigate the matter.

(b) If, after inspection as stated in subsection (a) of this Article, it is found that such a place is operating in violation of this Act, the Ministry has the power to order the immediate closure of that place, along with an order to register it as stated in this Act.
Chapter Nine
Collection, Protection, and Provision of Information

42. Protecting and Maintaining Information

(a) The Ministry shall formulate the principles on how to protect and maintain all information of the education sector in accordance with the regulations made under this Act, and shall make arrangements for the collection of information in accordance with those regulations.

(b) Except for institutions providing higher education, a party designated by the Ministry shall collect and compile information from every institution providing education in the Maldives.

43. Providing Information

(a) The Ministry shall publicly publish the annual statistics of the education sector every year.

(b) Schools operating in the Maldives and other parties providing educational services shall provide the required statistics in accordance with the principles determined by the Ministry. In providing information in this way, no information that could harm the human dignity and personality of any person shall be disclosed.

(c) The parties entrusted with the responsibility of conducting various activities related to the education sector and conducted in schools shall provide information and statistics of that work to a party designated by the Ministry, in accordance with the principles determined by the Ministry.

(d) The Ministry shall provide statistics and information of the education sector required by researchers and other parties in accordance with the principles determined by the Ministry.
Chapter Ten
General Articles

44. Making and Implementing Regulations

(a) Unless otherwise stated in this Act, all regulations that need to be made under this Act shall be made and implemented by the Ministry.

(b) Unless otherwise stated in this Act, the regulations that need to be made under this Act shall be made and published in the Government Gazette within 12 (twelve) months of this Act coming into force.

45. Repealed Law

With the commencement of this Act, Law No. 1/2012 (Preschool Operation Act) is repealed.[6]

46. Commencement of the Act

This Act shall come into force on the date of commencement of the first academic year that begins after the date on which this Act is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette.[6]

47. Definitions

Unless otherwise stated in this Act, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given below.

(a) "Guardians" means parents, legal guardians, persons with custody, and legal custodians, and persons who are in charge of the child's care at that time. Legal guardians, persons with custody, and legal custodians shall be interpreted in accordance with Law No. 4/2000 (Family Act) and the regulations made thereunder.

(b) "Formal Education" means preschool education, primary education, and secondary education that teaches the national curriculum.

(c) "Non-formal Education" means learning acquired informally by individuals who have not had the opportunity of formal education or who wish to continue their education after completing the formal education system, to become useful members of society, including the concepts of community education, continuing education, lifelong learning, adult education, and second-chance education, to acquire the skills, knowledge, and ideas they need.

(d) "Lifelong Learning" means the learning that a person acquires on their own at some point in their life outside the formal education system.

(e) "Continuing Education" means the learning that a person acquires in a specific field after completing the formal education system.

(f) "Formal Education Center" means a center registered to provide school education.

(g) "International Examination" means school examinations conducted by an institution or company that operates in many countries and is widely recognized.

(h) "National Examinations" means examinations conducted by the Maldives Examinations Board.

(i) "School Education" means preschool, primary, secondary, and higher secondary education.

(j) "Preschool Education" means the stage of education given to children between the ages of 4 (four) and 6 (six) years before primary education.

(k) "Primary Education" means the stage of education from grade 1 (one) to the end of grade 6 (six) in the education system established in the Maldives.

(l) "Secondary Education" means the stage of education from grade 7 (seven) to the end of grade 10 (ten) in the education system established in the Maldives.

(m) "Higher Secondary Education" means the stage of education from grade 11 (eleven) to the end of grade 12 (twelve) in the education system established in the Maldives.

(n) "Compulsory Education" means the education required to be given to children of compulsory education age under Article 15 of this Act.

(o) "Children of Compulsory Education Age" means children of the age group specified in Article 14 of this Act.

(p) "School" means preschools and places that provide primary, secondary, and higher secondary education in the Maldivian education system.

(q) "School Staff" means the head of the school, teachers, and all other employees employed by the school.

(r) "Curriculum" means the information and skills prescribed to be taught in preparation for an examination in a particular subject.

(s) "Ministry" means the government ministry entrusted at the time with the responsibility of implementing education policies.

(t) "Minister" means the minister of the government ministry entrusted at the time with the responsibility of implementing education policies.

(u) "Teacher" means a person employed to teach students studying in preschools, primary, secondary, and higher secondary education in the Maldivian education system.

(v) "Teachers Registration Board" means the board established under this Act to register teachers, issue teaching licenses, and maintain the ethical, professional, and behavioral standards of teachers.

(w) "Principal" means the most senior person in charge of running a government or private school.

(x) "The international Convention on the Rights of the Child and other relevant international treaties" means the "Convention on the Rights of the Child" to which the Maldives is a party, and other international treaties to which the Maldives is a party concerning the rights of children, economic, social and cultural rights, the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, and education, including the protocols to those treaties.

(y) "Public-Private Partnership (PPP) Schools" means schools that provide education for a specified period at an agreed price and at a specified level and quality between the state and private service providers.

(z) "Community Schools" means schools run in collaboration between the state and the community.

(aa) "Baby Nursery and Nursery" means the educational stage completed before preschool (LKG, UKG).

(bb) "Tuition Centers" means classes conducted to clarify and teach the lessons given in general education schools or madrasas. A tuition class shall be considered as such if tuition is given to more than 5 (five) children at one time in one place.

(cc) "Quran Classes" means classes that teach the Quran to students under the age of 18 (eighteen). A class shall be considered as such if more than 5 (five) children are taught at one time in one place.

