Environmental Protection and Preservation Act of Maldives
Introduction

    Since the Maldivian environment is a valuable heritage that must be preserved for future generations, and because the land, water, plants, beaches, lagoons, reefs, and other such places, as well as the seas and the atmosphere, and the protection and preservation of the creatures living in them (excluding those harmful to humans), contribute to the nation's survival and progress, the Maldivian government and its citizens must give these matters special attention to sustain and enhance their benefits.[1]

Guidance and Adherence to Guidance

    The relevant government authorities shall provide guidance on how to carry out activities for the protection and preservation of the Maldivian environment, taking into account the prevailing conditions of the country.[1] All parties must respect and adhere to the guidance provided by these authorities.[1]

Environmental Protection and Preservation

    The Ministry responsible for implementing environmental policies shall, in consultation with other relevant government agencies, establish policies for the protection and preservation of the Maldivian environment, its biodiversity, and the richness of its living organisms. This includes protecting the freshwater lenses of the islands, and associated areas such as mangroves, swamps, and wetlands, as well as safeguarding the environment from waste and harmful gases. The Ministry will also formulate and implement all necessary regulations and standards for environmental protection and preservation.

Places and Objects to be Maintained in their Natural State

    (a) The Ministry shall identify places and objects that need to be protected in order to be maintained in their natural state and shall formulate and enforce regulations concerning these places and objects.[1]

    (b) Any party wishing to establish such a protected place must register with the Ministry and do so in accordance with the regulations established by the Ministry.[1]

Environmental Impact Assessment Report

    (a) Before implementing any project that may have a significant impact on the environment of the Maldives, a report on the potential environmental impacts of that project must be prepared and submitted to the Ministry.[2]

    (b) The Ministry shall determine the types of projects and the procedures for which an Environmental Impact Assessment report is required.[3]

Project Cessation

    If it is determined that an ongoing project is causing adverse effects on the environment of the Maldives, the Ministry has the authority to halt that project.[2] No compensation shall be provided for a project that is halted in this manner.[2]

Waste, Oil, and Toxic Substances

    (a) No waste, oil, or toxic gases shall be disposed of or dumped in any part of the territory of the Maldives in a manner that could harm the environment.[2]

    (b) Items mentioned in subsection (a) that must be disposed of shall be disposed of or dumped only in places designated by the government for that purpose.[2] If such items are to be incinerated for disposal, it must be done with adequate safety precautions so as not to harm human health.[2]

Hazardous Waste

    Hazardous waste that could cause harm to humans and the environment shall not be disposed of in any part of the territory of the Maldives.[2] Furthermore, if such materials are to be transported through the territory of the Maldives, written permission must be obtained from the Ministry at least 3 months prior to the transport.

Penalties for Violating the Law and Causing Environmental Damage

    (a) For ordinary offenses in daily life that violate this Act or regulations made under it, the penalty shall be a fine ranging from MVR 5 (five) to MVR 500 (five hundred), depending on the severity of the offense. This fine shall be imposed by the Ministry or by a government body designated by the Ministry, in accordance with a regulation established by the Ministry.[2]

    (b) With the exception of the offenses mentioned in subsection (a), the penalty for major offenses against this Act shall be a fine not exceeding MVR 100 (one hundred) million, commensurate with the severity of the offense. This fine shall be imposed by the Ministry.[2]

Claiming Compensation for Damages

    If an offense as described in Article 7 of this Act is committed, or if any party commits an act that has an adverse effect on the environment of the Maldives, even if it is not caused by a project as defined in this Act, the Maldivian government has the right to claim compensation through the courts.[2]

Provision of Services by Councils

10-1. (a) Among the services that the Ministry is required to provide under this Act, those designated by the Ministry to be provided at the atoll, island, or city level shall be provided by the council corresponding to that atoll, island, or city, in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

(b) The services to be provided at the atoll, island, or city level as determined by the Ministry under subsection (a), and the procedures related to the provision of these services, shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

(c) The Ministry and relevant authorities shall provide the necessary funds, resources, and assistance to the councils in relation to the services mentioned in subsection (a). The manner in which funds, resources, and assistance will be provided to the councils shall be specified in the regulation mentioned in subsection (b) of this Article.
Definitions

    In this Act:

    (a) Environment refers to all living and non-living things and places that surround humans and have an impact on them.

    (b) Project refers to any work undertaken to achieve a specified social or economic objective.

    (c) "Ministry" refers to the government ministry entrusted at the time with the responsibility of implementing environmental policies.

    (d) "Island Council" refers to the Island Council as defined in Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act).

    (e) "City Council" refers to the City Council as defined in Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act).

    (f) "Atoll Council" refers to the Atoll Council as defined in Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act).
