Extradition Act

Part One
Preliminary Matters

Chapter One
Introduction and Purpose

Introduction and Name
1.
(a) This is a law that sets out the procedures to be followed for the extradition of criminals of foreign countries who are in the Maldives to those countries for the following purposes, and the procedures to be followed for the extradition of criminals in foreign countries to the Maldives for the following purposes.
(1) For the prosecution of an offense for which the person has been accused; or
(2) If the person has been convicted of a crime but has not been sentenced, for the purpose of sentencing; or
(3) If the person has been convicted of a crime, sentenced, and a punishment has been determined, for the purpose of enforcing the sentence.
(b) This law shall be cited as the "Extradition Act".

Purpose
2.
The purpose of this Act is to achieve the following objectives.
(a) To establish the procedures for the extradition of criminals of foreign countries who are in the Maldives to those countries;
(b) To determine the types of offenses for which criminals of foreign countries who are in the Maldives can be extradited, and to determine the circumstances under which they cannot be extradited from the Maldives;
(c) To establish procedures for finding, detaining, and arresting criminals of foreign countries in the Maldives, and to establish procedures for the seizure of property;
(d) To establish procedures for the transit through the Maldives of a criminal from a foreign country during their extradition to a third country;
(e) To set out the procedures to be followed for the extradition of criminals in foreign countries to the Maldives.

Chapter Two
Glossary of Terms

Criminals
3.
"Criminals" refers to persons accused of committing a crime, persons convicted of committing a crime, and persons convicted of committing a crime but who have not yet been sentenced, inclusively.

Foreign Criminals in the Maldives
4.
"Foreign criminals in the Maldives" refers to persons in the Maldives who have committed a crime under the law of a foreign country, fall into one of the following categories, and are sought for transfer to that country for the following purposes.
(a) For the prosecution in that country of persons accused of committing an offense under the law of that country; or
(b) For the sentencing in that country of persons who have been convicted of an offense under the law of that country but have not yet been sentenced; or
(c) For the enforcement in that country of the sentence of persons who have been convicted and sentenced for an offense under the law of that country.

Criminals in Foreign Countries
5.
"Criminals in foreign countries" refers to persons in a foreign country who have committed a crime under the law of the Maldives, fall into one of the following categories, and are sought for transfer to the Maldives for the following purposes.
(a) For the prosecution in the Maldives of persons accused of committing an offense under the law of the Maldives; or
(b) For the sentencing in the Maldives of persons who have been convicted of an offense under the law of the Maldives but have not yet been sentenced; or
(c) For the enforcement in the Maldives of the sentence of persons who have been convicted and sentenced for an offense under the law of the Maldives.

Extraditable Offense
6.
"Extraditable offense" means, in relation to a country designated as a treaty country under this Act, the offenses specified in the agreement between the Maldives and that country. For any other country, it means the offenses specified in Article 13 of this Act.

Extraditable Countries
7.
"Extraditable countries" refers to countries to which criminals can be extradited as determined under Chapter Eight of this Act.

Extradition
8.
"Extradition" shall have one of the following meanings.
(a) In relation to the extradition of a foreign criminal in the Maldives, it is the transfer of the person to that country under an extradition order issued under this Act, after the requesting country has submitted a request for their extradition and all necessary stages under this Act have been completed for their extradition; or
(b) In relation to the extradition of a criminal in a foreign country to the Maldives, it is the bringing of the person to the Maldives by that country after the Maldives has requested their extradition and all necessary stages under the law of that country for their extradition to the Maldives have been completed.
(c) In relation to the extradition of a criminal of a foreign country to a third country, it is the extradition of the person to that third country after the completion of all necessary stages required under the law of the country where the person is located.

Country Requesting Extradition of the Criminal
9.
"Country requesting extradition of the criminal" refers to the country that submits a request under Article 15 of this Act for the extradition of a foreign criminal in the Maldives.

Extradition Order
10.
"Extradition order" refers to the order issued by the Prosecutor General under Article 29 of this Act, granting permission for the extradition of a foreign criminal from the Maldives, making the final decision on the extradition of the criminal to the requesting country after all required stages in the Maldives have been completed.

Part Two
Extradition of Foreign Criminals in the Maldives

Chapter Three
General Provisions Regarding Extradition

Countries to which Criminals can be Extradited
11.
Under this Act, foreign criminals in the Maldives may only be permitted to be extradited to countries that are designated under this Act as countries to which criminals can be extradited.

Non-extradition of Maldivian Citizens
12.
Under this Act, Maldivian citizens shall not be extradited to a foreign country. However, if the country requesting extradition so requests, and if the offense for which that country seeks extradition can be prosecuted in the Maldives, charges for that offense must be brought against him.

Types of Offenses for which Criminals can be Extradited Under this Act
13.
(a) An offense shall be considered an extraditable offense under this Act for the extradition of foreign criminals in the Maldives to their respective countries if it meets the following conditions.
(1) The offense is punishable under the law of the requesting country by a maximum penalty of at least 1 (one) year of imprisonment or any other form of detention, or a more severe penalty; and
(2) If the act constituting the offense were committed in the Maldives, it would constitute an offense under Maldivian law punishable by a maximum penalty of at least 1 (one) year of imprisonment or any other form of detention, or a more severe penalty.
(b) If a request is submitted concerning a person serving a sentence for an offense as described in paragraph (a) of this Article, and the sentence is for imprisonment or another form of detention, permission for their extradition to that country shall be granted only if the remaining period of the sentence to be served is at least 6 (six) months, or if a longer sentence remains to be served.
(c) For the purpose of paragraph (a) of this Article, when determining whether a specific act is an offense under both Maldivian law and the law of the requesting country, it is not necessary for the offense or the criminal act to be classified in the same category, or referred to by the same terms or phrases, or for the elements of the offense to be identical in both countries. However, in determining whether an offense is an offense under this Article, all acts that the criminal is alleged to have committed or omitted, as stated in the request from the requesting country, shall be taken into consideration.
(d) Acts contrary to the laws of the Maldives concerning taxes and import duties shall be considered offenses as described in paragraph (a) of this Article if such acts are also considered offenses of the same nature in the country requesting extradition. The fact that the tax or import duty is not of a type specified in Maldivian law, or that the Maldives does not have a law or regulation concerning the tax or import duty that exists in the requesting country, shall not be a reason to withhold permission for the extradition of a criminal under this Article.
(e) If a criminal is requested for extradition in connection with more than one offense for which they have been accused or charged, and some of those offenses are of a type for which extradition is not permitted under this Act, extradition may still be granted for the other offenses, provided that at least one of the offenses for which extradition is sought is an offense for which extradition from the Maldives is permissible under this Act.

Circumstances under which Criminals shall not be Extradited under this Act
14.
In the following circumstances, permission shall not be granted for the extradition of a foreign criminal from the Maldives.
(a) The offense for which the person has been charged or is accused of committing is a political offense, or, considering all the circumstances of the offense, it can be regarded as a political offense;
(b) There is sufficient evidence to believe that the request for extradition from the requesting country is for the purpose of prosecuting or punishing the person based on their race, gender, religion, nationality, or political opinion;
(c) It is believed that if the person is taken to the requesting country, they will be discriminated against in the legal proceedings in that country based on their race, gender, religion, nationality, or political opinion;
(d) The act committed or omitted by the person would, if committed in the Maldives, be considered an offense under the military law of the Maldives but not a general criminal offense;
(e) The extradition is requested in connection with an offense for which a final judgment has been passed and the sentence has been fully served in the Maldives or another country;
(f) The offense is one for which prosecution is barred by the statute of limitations or for any other reason under the law of the requesting country or the law of the Maldives;
(g) The person has been acquitted by a court, or has been convicted and has served the sentence or has been pardoned for the offense or for another offense arising from the same act, under the law of the requesting country or the law of the Maldives.

Chapter Four
Requesting the Extradition of Foreign Criminals in the Maldives

Requesting the Extradition of Criminals in the Maldives
15.
(a) Under this Act, a foreign criminal in the Maldives may be extradited to their country for the following purposes, and only upon the authorization of the Prosecutor General in response to a request submitted to the Maldives by the requesting country under this Act.
(1) For the prosecution of an offense for which the person has been accused; or
(2) If the person has been convicted of a crime but has not been sentenced, for the purpose of sentencing; or
(3) If the person has been convicted of a crime, sentenced, and a punishment has been determined, for the purpose of enforcing the sentence.
(b) Requests from foreign countries for the extradition of a foreign criminal in the Maldives under this Act shall be submitted to the Foreign Minister through the relevant government authority of that country.
(c) Every request submitted by a foreign country for the extradition of a criminal under this Article must be accompanied by the following documents.
(1) Information identifying the criminal's nationality and identity;
(2) Details of the offense, including the place and time of the offense committed by the criminal or for which they are accused;
(3) A copy of the relevant articles of the law defining the offense committed by the criminal or for which they are accused;
(4) A copy of the relevant articles of the law prescribing the punishment for the offense committed by the criminal or for which they are accused;
(5) If the criminal is accused of committing an offense in that country, the warrant issued for their arrest in that country or a copy of the warrant certified as a true copy by a relevant official authority of that country;
(6) If the criminal has been convicted of an offense in that country, a certified official document from a relevant authority of that country, providing evidence of the court's judgment of conviction, the sentence imposed, and, if any part of the sentence has been served, a statement to that effect;
(7) Evidence admissible under this Act that establishes a prima facie case that the criminal committed the offense to which the extradition request relates.
(d) The documents submitted under paragraph (c) of this Article must be in the English language. If the original document is not in English, a certified English translation of the document, endorsed as a true copy by a relevant official authority of that country, must be submitted.
(e) The format for requests submitted by foreign countries under this Article, and the procedures to be followed in submitting such requests, shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.
(f) Upon receiving a request from a foreign country under this Article, the Foreign Minister, after verifying compliance with the requirements under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Article, shall forward the request to the Prosecutor General.

Authorization to Proceed
16.
(a) Upon receiving a request from the Foreign Minister under Article 15 of this Act, the Prosecutor General shall ascertain the following regarding the request.
(1) That the offense committed or alleged to have been committed by the criminal is among the types of offenses for which criminals can be extradited to foreign countries as specified in this Act; and
(2) That the country requesting the extradition of the criminal is a country designated under this Act as a country to which criminals can be extradited; and
(3) That there is no legal impediment under this Act or any other law to the extradition of the criminal from the Maldives; and
(4) That there is no other reason why authorization to proceed with the request should not be granted.
(b) If the conditions in paragraph (a) of this Article are met for a request, the Prosecutor General may grant authorization to proceed with the request.
(c) If the Prosecutor General decides to grant authorization under paragraph (b) of this Article, the authorization shall be sent to the High Court. The High Court shall be the court of first instance for hearing cases under this Act.
(d) If the Prosecutor General decides to grant authorization under paragraph (b) of this Article, a copy of the authorization and a copy of the request referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be given by the Prosecutor General to the criminal to whom the request pertains.
(e) If the Prosecutor General decides not to grant authorization to proceed with the request under this Article, the Prosecutor General shall inform the High Court of this decision.
(f) If the Prosecutor General decides not to grant authorization to proceed with a particular request and informs the court under paragraph (e) of this Article, and if the criminal to whom the request pertains is in custody under Article 21 of this Act, the court shall order their release.
(g) If more than one country submits a request for the extradition of the same foreign criminal in the Maldives under this Act, the Prosecutor General, in deciding which country to extradite the criminal to, shall have regard to the relevant international treaties between the Maldives and each country and all other relevant circumstances. In doing so, the Prosecutor General shall consider the following matters.
(1) The order in which the requests were received;
(2) The nationality of the criminal;
(3) The nationality of the victim or victims of the offense;
(4) The criminal's habitual place of residence;
(5) The habitual place of residence of the victim or victims of the offense;
(6) The place and time the offense was committed;
(7) If extradition is sought for different offenses, the severity of the offenses;
(8) The possibility of the criminal being extradited to a third country;
(9) The reason for seeking the extradition of the criminal;
(10) The course of action that the Prosecutor General deems most just, having regard to the principles of justice.

Consent of the Criminal to be Extradited from the Maldives
17.
(a) A foreign criminal in the Maldives may, at any time after the Prosecutor General has granted authorization to proceed with the request under Article 16 of this Act, declare before a judge their consent to be extradited to the country requesting extradition.
(b) If a criminal consents to be extradited to a foreign country under paragraph (a) of this Article, and the judge is satisfied that the consent was given voluntarily, the judge shall act as follows.
(1) Ensure that the person knows the offense for which the requesting country has sought their extradition; and
(2) Explain to the person the consequences of consenting to extradition to that country.
(c) For the purpose of sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph (b) of this Article, the consequence of a criminal consenting to be extradited to a foreign country is that they will be dealt with as follows.
(1) Detention without trial until a decision is made under this Act on their extradition to the requesting country; and
(2) Extradition to the requesting country upon the Prosecutor General's decision to extradite them from the Maldives under paragraph (b) of Article 28 of this Act and the issuance of an extradition order.
(d) If, after the judge has explained the consequences of consenting to extradition to a foreign country under sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph (b) of this Article, the criminal still expresses their consent to be extradited to that country, the judge shall act as follows.
(1) Issue an order for their detention; and
(2) Inform the Prosecutor General in writing that the person is in custody and of the offense for which the requesting country has sought their extradition.
(e) Upon receiving a notification from a judge under sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph (d) of this Article, the Prosecutor General may issue an order for the extradition of the criminal from the Maldives under paragraph (b) of Article 28 of this Act.
(f) If a foreign country requests the extradition of a criminal for more than one offense, and even if those offenses are such that extradition is permissible under this Act, if the criminal consents under this Article to be extradited to that country for only one or some of those offenses, the decision to extradite them to that country under this Article shall be made only in relation to the offense or offenses for which they have consented.
(g) If a request has been made by a country for the extradition of a criminal for an offense that is not designated as an extraditable offense under this Act, the judge shall ask the criminal whether they consent to be extradited to that country for that offense. If the person does not so consent, it shall not be decided under this Article that it appears proper to extradite them to that country for that offense.

Chapter Five
Arrest and Detention

Arrest of Criminals Sought for Extradition
18.
(a) Except in the circumstances specified in paragraph (b) of this Article, a foreign criminal in the Maldives shall be arrested for the purpose of extradition to a foreign country under this Act only if the Prosecutor General has granted authorization to proceed under Article 16 of this Act in relation to that person.
(b) A foreign criminal in the Maldives may be arrested without the authorization of the Prosecutor General under this Act only in one of the circumstances specified in Article 20 of this Act, and in accordance with that Article.

Detention in Accordance with an Order Issued under the Authority of the Prosecutor General
19.
(a) When the Prosecutor General grants authorization to proceed with a request under Article 16 of this Act, if the request does not relate to a person already detained under Article 21 of this Act, the High Court shall issue a warrant for the arrest of the criminal whose extradition is sought in the said authorization.
(b) A criminal arrested in accordance with a warrant of arrest issued under paragraph (a) of this Article shall be brought before the High Court at the earliest opportunity, and no later than 24 (twenty-four) hours.
(c) Until the conclusion of the hearing held under this Act to decide on the extradition of a criminal brought before the court under paragraph (a) of this Article to the country that requested extradition, the judge has the discretion to act in one of the following ways regarding the person.
(1) Order their detention in custody; or
(2) If the judge believes that the person is not likely to abscond, order their release on bail; or
(3) Along with an order under sub-paragraph (1) or (2) of this paragraph, order the seizure of their passport until the conclusion of the trial.
(d) If a criminal referred to in this Article applies to the court for release on bail and the court orders their detention in custody, they shall not be entitled to apply again for release on bail.
(e) The rules and procedures applicable in the Maldives regarding release on bail in criminal cases shall apply to a person released on bail under this Article.

Provisional Arrest Warrant
20.
(a) If a foreign country has reasonable grounds to believe that a criminal wanted in connection with a criminal matter is in the Maldives, or may arrive in the Maldives in the near future, it may request the issuance of a provisional arrest warrant to keep the person under arrest until a formal request for extradition is submitted.
(b) A request under paragraph (a) of this Article may be submitted through a competent authority of the government of that country, or through the International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL), or under a treaty between the two countries.
(c) The procedures for a country to request a provisional arrest warrant in connection with a request made under paragraph (a) of this Article shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.
(d) The Prosecutor General shall apply to the High Court for a court order in accordance with a request made under paragraph (a) of this Article.
(e) If an application for a provisional arrest warrant is made to the High Court under paragraph (d) of this Article, the High Court may issue a provisional warrant for the arrest of the criminal to whom the order relates, after verifying the fulfillment of the following conditions in relation to the case.
(1) The criminal is a person who has committed an offense in the country requesting their detention; and
(2) The offense committed or alleged to have been committed by the criminal is an offense designated as an extraditable offense under this Act; and
(3) The country requesting the criminal's detention has declared its intention to make a formal request for their extradition to the Maldives within a maximum of 14 (fourteen) days, or within a longer period if specified in an agreement between the requesting country and the Maldives; and
(4) The request is accompanied by the documents specified in paragraph (f) of this Article; and
(5) The offense committed or alleged to have been committed by the criminal would, if committed in the Maldives, be an offense to which Maldivian law would apply, and if a person commits such an offense, the court would have the authority under Maldivian law to issue a warrant for their arrest.
(f) Every request submitted by a party specified in paragraph (b) of this Article for the issuance of a provisional arrest warrant under paragraph (a) of this Article must be accompanied by the following documents.
(1) A copy of the warrant issued in that country for the arrest of the criminal, certified as a true copy by a relevant official authority of that country;
(2) Details of the criminal;
(3) Details of the offense committed by the criminal or for which they are accused;
(4) If the offense committed by the criminal or for which they are accused is defined by a law, the name of that law and a copy of its relevant articles;
(5) If the offense committed by the criminal or for which they are accused is not an offense defined in a law, a valid document explaining how it constitutes an offense;
(6) If the offense committed by the criminal or for which they are accused is punishable by a law, a copy of the relevant articles of that law;
(7) If the offense committed by the criminal or for which they are accused is not punishable by a law, a valid document explaining how punishment may otherwise be imposed for that offense; and
(8) Any other information specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Detention under a Provisional Arrest Warrant
21.
(a) A criminal arrested in accordance with a provisional arrest warrant issued under Article 20 of this Act shall be brought before the High Court at the earliest opportunity, and no later than 24 (twenty-four) hours.
(b) Until the country requests the extradition of the criminal brought before the court under paragraph (a) of this Article, and if such a request is made by that country, until the Prosecutor General grants authorization to proceed under Article 16 of this Act in relation to that request, the judge has the discretion to act in one of the following ways regarding the person.
(1) Order their detention in custody; or
(2) If the judge believes that the person is not likely to abscond, order their release on bail; or
(3) Along with an order under sub-paragraph (1) or (2) of this paragraph, order the seizure of their passport until the conclusion of the hearing held under this Act to decide on their extradition to the country that requested their detention.
(c) The rules and procedures applicable in the Maldives regarding release on bail in criminal cases shall apply to a person released on bail in accordance with sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph (b) of this Article.
(d) If the judge acts in accordance with the discretion granted under paragraph (b) of this Article, the judge shall provide the following information to the Prosecutor General.
(1) That the criminal has been detained under sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph (b) of this Article or released on bail under sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph (b) of this Article;
(2) The name of the country that requested the criminal's detention;
(3) The nature of the offense committed by the criminal or for which they are accused.
(e) The court shall provide a copy of the documents considered by the court in issuing a provisional arrest warrant under this Article to the Prosecutor General and to the person detained.

Release from Custody
22.
(a) A person detained under Article 21 of this Act shall not be held in custody for a period longer than 45 (forty-five) days.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, if a longer period is specified under an agreement between the country requesting the criminal's detention and the Maldives, this Act does not prevent the criminal from being held in custody for that period.
(c) If a criminal detained under Article 21 of this Act pursuant to a provisional arrest warrant issued under Article 20 has been in custody for 45 (forty-five) days, or for such other period as may be specified in an agreement between the requesting country and the Maldives, and if by that time the country has not submitted a request for the extradition of the criminal, or if the country has submitted such a request but the Prosecutor General has not granted authorization to proceed under Article 16 of this Act, the person shall be brought before the High Court.
(d) If the country that requested the detention of the criminal brought before the court under paragraph (c) of this Article has not formally requested their extradition, they shall not be held in further custody. However, if that country has formally requested their extradition, but the Prosecutor General has not yet granted the authorization under Article 16 of this Act, the judge may decide to detain them for a further period of 45 (forty-five) days or release them on bail. This may be done if the judge believes that the Prosecutor General's authorization under Article 16 of this Act is likely to be granted within those 45 (forty-five) days.
(e) If the judge does not believe that the Prosecutor General's authorization under Article 16 of this Act will be granted within the period specified in paragraph (d) of this Article, the criminal brought before the court under paragraph (c) of this Article shall be released from custody.
(f) If the period of detention of a criminal brought before the court under paragraph (c) of this Article is extended under paragraph (d) of this Article, and if the Prosecutor General's authorization under Article 16 of this Act has not been granted by the expiry of that extended period, the person shall be released from custody.

Chapter Six
Hearing to Determine on Extradition

Conducting the Hearing
23.
If the High Court is satisfied that the following conditions are met, the hearing to decide on the extradition of a foreign criminal in the Maldives to that country under this Act shall be held at the earliest opportunity.
(a) The Prosecutor General has granted authorization under Article 16 of this Act to proceed with the request submitted by the foreign country for the extradition of the criminal; and
(b) The criminal has not consented to be extradited to the foreign country in accordance with Article 17 of this Act; and
(c) After the criminal has received a copy of the request for their extradition under paragraph (d) of Article 16 of this Act, they or the country requesting their extradition have had sufficient time to prepare for the hearing.

Admissible Evidence
24.
In a hearing held under this Article, any document stated to be a valid document under this Act shall be admissible as evidence.

Procedure of the Hearing
25.
(a) The hearing held under Article 23 of this Act shall proceed in accordance with the procedures for criminal trials in the Maldives. The procedures applicable in such trials regarding the following matters shall also apply to hearings held under this Act.
(1) Summoning witnesses;
(2) Obtaining documents;
(3) Detention of accused persons;
(4) Administering oaths and taking statements;
(5) Contempt of court;
(6) Fining for offenses and the levels of fines.
(b) In a hearing held under Article 23 of this Act, the criminal shall not be permitted to present evidence to prove that the offense which the requesting country alleges they have committed, or are accused of committing, is not an offense they have committed. And such evidence shall not be admitted by the court.

Decision on the Extradition of the Criminal
26.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this Article, the High Court shall not, in a hearing held under Article 23 of this Act, decide that it appears proper to extradite a foreign criminal in the Maldives to that country.
(b) If the court is satisfied of the following matters, it may decide that it appears proper to extradite a criminal to the country that has requested their extradition.
(1) That the country requesting the extradition of the criminal is a country designated as an extraditable country under this Act; and
(2) That the offense committed or alleged to have been committed by the criminal is an offense designated as an extraditable offense under this Act; and
(3) That it is confirmed that the person whose case is being heard by the court is the criminal sought for extradition by the foreign country; and
(4) That all the documents required to be submitted under paragraph (e) of Article 15 of this Act have been received by the court.
(c) In making a decision under paragraph (b) of this Article, the fact that the criminal has objected to their extradition to the requesting country and has submitted a case to any court shall not be considered by the court as a reason not to decide on their extradition to that country under this Article.
(d) If a judge decides under paragraph (b) of this Article that it appears proper to extradite a criminal to the country that has requested their extradition, the judge shall act as follows.
(1) Issue an order for the detention of the criminal until the Prosecutor General makes a decision under Article 28 of this Act; and
(2) Inform the person that they may apply to the Supreme Court for an appeal against the order under Article 27 of this Act within 30 (thirty) days from the date of the issuance of the order mentioned in paragraph (a) of this Article; and
(3) Record in writing the judge's decision and information about the offense committed by the criminal or for which they are accused; and
(4) Provide a copy of the record mentioned in sub-paragraph (3) of this paragraph to the criminal and the Prosecutor General.
(e) If the High Court decides under paragraph (b) of this Article that it appears proper to extradite the criminal to the country requesting extradition, and if the country has requested the extradition of the criminal for an offense not designated as an extraditable offense under this Act, the judge shall ask the person if they consent to be extradited to that country for that offense. If the person does not so consent, it shall be deemed that the court's decision to extradite them pertains only to the offense for which extradition was initially requested.
(f) If the High Court decides that it does not appear proper to extradite a criminal to the country that has requested their extradition, the court shall act as follows.
(1) Order their release; and
(2) Inform the Prosecutor General in writing that an order has been issued for their release and the reasons for deciding that it does not appear proper to extradite them to the country that requested their extradition.

Appeals
27.
(a) If the High Court decides under paragraph (c) of Article 26 of this Act that it appears proper to extradite a foreign criminal in the Maldives to the requesting country and orders their detention until the Prosecutor General makes a decision under Article 28 of this Act, the criminal may apply to the Supreme Court to appeal that decision.
(b) If the High Court decides under paragraph (e) of Article 26 of this Act that it does not appear proper to extradite a criminal to the country that has requested their extradition and orders their release, the competent authority of the country requesting the extradition of the criminal may apply to the Supreme Court to appeal that decision.
(c) An appeal under this Article may be submitted within 30 (thirty) days from the date of issuance of the order under paragraph (c) or paragraph (e) of Article 26 of this Act.
(d) In considering an appeal under this Article, the Supreme Court shall have regard only to the evidence and documents available to the High Court when it issued the order under paragraph (c) or paragraph (e) of Article 26 of this Act.
(e) After considering an appeal under this Article, the Supreme Court may quash, vary, or uphold an order issued under paragraph (c) or paragraph (e) of Article 26 of this Act.
(f) If, after considering an appeal under this Article, the Supreme Court decides that it appears proper to extradite the criminal to the foreign country, and if the criminal is not in custody, the Supreme Court shall order the detention of the criminal until the Prosecutor General makes a decision under Article 28 of this Act.
(g) If, when the court makes a decision under paragraph (f) of this Article, the criminal is in custody, the court shall order their continued detention until the Prosecutor General makes a decision under Article 28 of this Act.
(h) If the court decides under paragraph (f) of this Article that it appears proper to extradite the criminal to the foreign country, the court's judgment shall state the offense for which the requesting country has sought their extradition.
(i) If, after considering an appeal under this Article, the Supreme Court decides that it does not appear proper to extradite a criminal to the country that has requested their extradition, the court shall order their release.

Chapter Seven
Decision on the Extradition of the Criminal

Prosecutor General's Decision on the Extradition of the Criminal
28.
(a) If the High Court decides under Article 26 of this Act that it appears proper to extradite a foreign criminal in the Maldives to the country that has requested their extradition and orders their detention, and if no appeal against that decision is made within the period allowed for appeal, or if an appeal is made within that period and after the Supreme Court has considered the appeal in accordance with Article 27 of this Act and decides that it appears proper to extradite the criminal to the requesting country, the Prosecutor General shall make the final decision on their extradition to that country.
(b) If the Prosecutor General decides under paragraph (a) of this Article to extradite the criminal to the foreign country, the Prosecutor General shall issue an order for the extradition of the criminal from the Maldives in accordance with Article 29 or Article 30 of this Act.
(c) The Prosecutor General has the discretion to decide not to extradite a criminal to the requesting country in any of the following circumstances.
(1) The requesting country has not provided the necessary assurances regarding the criminal, or there is no provision for such assurances in the extradition agreement between the Maldives and the requesting country;
(2) There is no law in that country ensuring that the person will not be prosecuted for any offense other than the one for which their extradition was sought;
(3) The person sought for extradition is a Maldivian citizen;
(4) The offense for which the criminal is sought is not punishable by death in the Maldives but is punishable by death in that country, and the country has not given an assurance that a death sentence will not be imposed on the criminal if they are taken to that country, or that if a death sentence is imposed, it will not be carried out;
(5) The offense for which the criminal is sought is an offense for which they have been charged in the Maldives;
(6) The offense for which the criminal is sought was committed outside the territory of the requesting country, and in such circumstances, offenses committed outside the Maldives are offenses to which Maldivian law does not apply;
(7) The Maldives believes that part or all of the offense for which the criminal is sought was committed in the Maldives;
(8) The criminal has been sentenced by a special court or tribunal of that country, or if the criminal is an accused person, there is a possibility that they will be sentenced by such a court or tribunal;
(9) The criminal has been tortured or subjected to cruel punishment in the requesting country or has otherwise been treated inhumanely, or there is sufficient evidence to believe that such treatment may occur in that country;
(10) Considering the national interest of the Maldives, and taking into account the policies of the Maldives regarding international cooperation to reduce crime, and considering the severity of the offense alleged to have been committed by the person sought for extradition, the Prosecutor General does not find it appropriate to extradite them to the foreign country.
(d) For the purpose of sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph (c) of this Article, assurances to be given by the requesting country regarding the criminal shall be an undertaking by that country that, before the criminal has an opportunity to leave that country, none of the following will be done to them.
(1) That the person will not be detained or prosecuted in connection with any offense committed before their extradition to that country, other than the offense for which their extradition was requested;
(2) That the person will not be transferred to a third country unless the Prosecutor General has granted permission for their extradition to such a third country in connection with an offense committed before their extradition to that country.
(e) If the Prosecutor General decides under paragraph (a) of this Article not to extradite the criminal to the foreign country, they shall order the person's release from custody.

Extradition Order
29.
(a) The extradition order issued by the Prosecutor General after deciding to extradite a foreign criminal from the Maldives under paragraph (b) of Article 28 of this Act shall be in writing. The order shall state the following.
(1) The identity of the criminal specified in the order;
(2) The offense or offenses committed by the criminal or for which they are accused;
(3) If the criminal is a person who has consented to extradition to a foreign country under Article 17 of this Act, a statement to that effect; or if the criminal is a person who has been found suitable for extradition to that country in a hearing held under Article 23 or Article 27 of this Act, a statement to that effect;
(4) An instruction to the person in charge of the criminal to hand them over to a police officer for extradition to that country;
(5) That the police are authorized to do the things specified in the regulations made under this Act for the purpose of extraditing the criminal to the country that has requested their extradition.
(b) If the criminal is a person in detention or on bail in the Maldives in connection with an offense they have committed, an order issued against them under this Article shall not be executed until they are released from detention or the period of their bail has expired.

Temporary Surrender Order
30.
(a) If a foreign criminal in the Maldives falls into the following circumstances, the Prosecutor General may issue a temporary surrender order for their transfer from the Maldives instead of an extradition order under Article 29 of this Act.
(1) The criminal is in detention in the Maldives serving a sentence; and
(2) The offense which the requesting country alleges the criminal has committed is an offense for which they have not been convicted, but for which they have been charged; and
(3) The requesting country has given an assurance that the criminal will be returned to the Maldives within 14 (fourteen) days after the conclusion of their trial in that country; and
(4) The Prosecutor General is satisfied that the requesting country has made arrangements for the transfer of the criminal to that country and their return to the Maldives.
(b) If the criminal referred to in this Article is a person released on parole or released from custody for the remainder of their sentence under any other permission, they shall not be considered a person in custody for the purpose of sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph (a) of this Article.
(c) The elements required to be included in an extradition order as specified in paragraph (a) of Article 29 of this Act shall also be included in a temporary order issued under paragraph (a) of this Article.
(d) The period a criminal spends in a foreign country under a temporary order issued under paragraph (a) of this Article shall be considered as time spent in the Maldives for the purpose of serving the sentence they were serving in the Maldives.
(e) If, while a criminal is in a foreign country under a temporary order issued under paragraph (a) of this Article, the sentence they were serving in the Maldives comes to an end, the Prosecutor General shall notify that the assurances given by the requesting country under sub-paragraph (3) of paragraph (a) of this Article regarding their attendance at trial and their return to the Maldives no longer apply to them.
(f) If a criminal against whom a temporary surrender order has been issued under paragraph (a) of this Article is taken to the requesting country, their trial is conducted in that country, and after the conclusion of sentencing for the offense for which they were taken, they are returned to the Maldives, and upon completion of the sentence they were serving in the Maldives as specified in sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph (a) of this Article, the Prosecutor General may issue an extradition order for them to that country under Article 29 of this Act. However, if the circumstances of the requesting country have changed at that time, the Prosecutor General has the discretion not to issue such an order if it appears to them that extraditing the person to that country would not be the most just course of action.
(g) The Prosecutor General shall decide to extradite the criminal to the requesting country under paragraph (f) of this Article only if the conditions specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Article 28 of this Act are met in relation to a request submitted by the requesting country under paragraph (f) of this Article.

Delay in Extradition of the Criminal
31.
(a) If a criminal specified in an order for extradition from the Maldives under this Act is not extradited to the requesting country within 2 (two) months from the date of the order, they may apply to the High Court for an order for their release from custody.
(b) If a criminal applies for release from custody under paragraph (a) of this Article, they shall inform the Prosecutor General of this.
(c) Upon receiving a request under paragraph (a) of this Article, the High Court, after verifying that the Prosecutor General is aware of the matter, shall order the release of the person from custody unless the court is satisfied that the failure to extradite the criminal from the Maldives was for a reasonable cause.
(d) For the purpose of paragraph (c) of this Article, the following circumstances shall be considered reasonable cause.
(1) The extradition of the criminal from the Maldives would endanger their health or life; or
(2) There is no reasonable means of transport available for the extradition of the criminal to the requesting country, and reasonable efforts have been made to find such means;
(3) Permission required from another foreign country for the extradition of the criminal to the requesting country has not been granted, and reasonable efforts have been made to obtain that permission;
(4) The requesting country is a country very far from the Maldives, and there is a possibility that the person cannot be transferred to that country within the period specified in paragraph (a) of this Article.

Extradition for Trial Only
32.
If the Prosecutor General has decided not to grant permission for the extradition of a criminal under sub-paragraph (9) of paragraph (c) of Article 28 of this Act because they might be tortured or subjected to cruel punishment or otherwise treated inhumanely if extradited to the requesting country, and if that country requests their transfer solely for the purpose of their trial in that country, and if the following conditions are met in relation to such a request, the Prosecutor General may grant permission for the extradition of the criminal to that country for the purpose of their trial in that country.
(a) If the law of that country permits the return to the Maldives of a person convicted after trial in that country; and
(b) If the person is convicted and sentenced in that country, that country has given an assurance that they will be sent to the Maldives; and
(c) The Maldives is satisfied that the criminal will not be treated inhumanely or subjected to such punishment.

Prosecution in the Maldives instead of Extradition
33.
(a) If, for one of the reasons specified in paragraph (c) of Article 28 of this Act, the Prosecutor General does not find it appropriate to grant permission for the extradition of a foreign criminal from the Maldives, instead of extraditing them, it may be decided to prosecute them in the Maldives for the offense for which their extradition was requested.
(b) The offense alleged to have been committed by the criminal mentioned in paragraph (a) of this Article must be an offense that would be considered a crime under the law of the Maldives if committed in the Maldives at the same time and under the same circumstances.
(c) If it is decided to prosecute a person in the Maldives under paragraph (a) of this Article, for the purpose of this Article, the offense committed by that person shall be deemed to have been committed in the Maldives. The procedures for prosecuting offenses committed in the Maldives or to which the law of the Maldives applies shall apply to that criminal.
(d) A person shall be prosecuted in the Maldives under paragraph (a) of this Article only if the Prosecutor General is satisfied that there is sufficient evidence to prosecute them, and if the Prosecutor General grants permission for such prosecution.

Chapter Eight
Countries to which Extradition is Permissible

Countries Published in the Gazette
34.
(a) A country published in the Gazette under this Chapter shall be deemed, for the purposes of this Act, to be a country to which criminals can be extradited under this Act.
(b) If the Minister of Foreign Affairs publishes a resolution in the Gazette under this Chapter to designate a particular country as a country to which criminals can be sent under this Act, that resolution shall be submitted to the People's Majlis for its approval within at least 14 (fourteen) days.
(c) If a resolution submitted to the Majlis under paragraph (b) of this Article does not receive the approval of the Majlis, that resolution shall be void from the day the Majlis passes that decision.
(d) If a resolution becomes void in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Article, the Minister of Foreign Affairs shall publish a statement to that effect in the Gazette.
(e) The validity of a resolution published in the Gazette in accordance with this Article shall not be questioned in any judicial court.

Treaty Countries
35.
(a) A country with which the Maldives has signed a treaty regarding the extradition of criminals, and which the Minister of Foreign Affairs designates and publishes in the Gazette as a country to which criminals can be sent under this Act, shall, unless otherwise specified in this Act, be a country to which this Act applies from that moment.
(b) A country shall be published in the Gazette under this Article only if nothing in the treaty agreed upon between that country and the Maldives regarding the extradition of criminals contradicts any matter specified in Article 14 of this Act.
(c) A country published in the Gazette under this Article shall be considered a country to which criminals can be sent under this Act as long as the treaty agreed upon between that country and the Maldives remains in force.
(d) This Act shall apply to a country published in the Gazette under this Article, unless otherwise specified in this Act, in accordance with the conditions and exceptions specified in that treaty. And for the duration that the treaty remains in force.

Other Countries
36.
(a) If a country other than those specified in Article 35 of this Act submits a request to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the extradition of a foreign criminal in the Maldives, the Minister of Foreign Affairs may, in accordance with this Article, designate that country as a country to which criminals can be sent under this Act and publish it in the Gazette.
(b) In deciding to publish a country in the Gazette under this Article, the Minister of Foreign Affairs shall seek the advice of the Prosecutor General, taking into account the following matters.
(1) The public interest of the Maldives;
(2) The seriousness of the offense committed by the criminal sought for extradition or for which they are accused;
(3) The public interest of that country.
(c) A country published in the Gazette under this Article shall, unless otherwise specified in this Act, be a country to which this Act applies from that moment.
(d) This Act shall apply to a country published in the Gazette under this Article to the extent specified in the Gazette as applicable to that country from among the articles of this Act.

Chapter Nine
Procedures for Search, Seizure, and Transit

Purpose of the Chapter
37.
The purpose of this Chapter is to establish procedures for the search and arrest of criminals, the seizure of property, and the transit through the Maldives of foreign criminals being extradited to a third country for the purposes of this Act.

Power of Search and Seizure
38.
(a) When a police officer arrests a criminal under a warrant issued under this Act, if there are reasonable grounds to believe that an object in their possession may be important evidence to prove the offense specified in the warrant, or if there are reasonable grounds to believe that the object was obtained by committing the offense specified in the warrant, that officer may seize that object.
(b) When a police officer arrests a criminal under a warrant issued under this Act, if there are reasonable grounds to believe that an object, whether it be money or otherwise, which may be important evidence to prove the offense specified in the warrant or was obtained by committing the offense specified in the warrant, is on their person, in the clothes they are wearing, or in an object in their vicinity and under their control, the officer may search their person and the clothes they are wearing or the object in their vicinity. And any object found during such a search may be seized.
(c) In conducting a search under paragraph (b) of this Article, a police officer does not have the power to remove or order the removal of a person's clothing or part of their clothing.
(d) A search of a person's body and clothing under paragraph (b) of this Article shall be conducted by an officer of the same sex.
(e) It is the responsibility of the police to keep any object seized under this Article in safe custody until the Prosecutor General instructs on a specific course of action regarding that object.
(f) The powers granted under this Article are in addition to the powers granted to the police under any other law or laws.

Issuance of Search and Seizure Warrants
39.
(a) If a written application is submitted to the court stating that there is reasonable evidence to believe that an object which may be important evidence to prove an offense alleged to have been committed by a foreign criminal in the Maldives or an offense specified in a provisional arrest warrant issued under Article 20 of this Act, or an object obtained by committing such an offense, is located in a particular place, and if the application states the reasons for such belief, a court order may be issued to authorize a police officer to enter the place where the object is believed to be, to seize the object if it is found there, and to search that place to find the object.
(b) If a judge needs to clarify any matter related to the reasons stated in a written application submitted under paragraph (a) of this Article for requesting such an order, such an order shall not be issued until after that matter has been clarified, and only in circumstances where the judge believes there are reasonable grounds for issuing the order.
(c) An order issued under paragraph (a) of this Article shall state the following.
(1) The purpose for which the order is issued;
(2) The type of offense alleged to have been committed by a criminal for whom extradition to a foreign country is sought under this Act or the type of offense specified in a provisional arrest warrant issued under Article 20 of this Act;
(3) If the order authorizes the use of reasonable force to carry out the actions authorized by the order, a statement to that effect;
(4) If the order authorizes entry into the premises at any time of the day or night, a statement to that effect, or if entry to such premises is restricted to specified times of the day or night, a statement to that effect;
(5) The specific types of objects that may be seized under the order;
(6) The period for which the order will remain in force.
(d) The duration of an order issued under paragraph (a) of this Article shall not exceed 1 (one) month.
(e) If, during a search conducted in accordance with an order issued under this Article, an object other than the one specified in the order is found, and if the police officer believes that this object is connected to an offense mentioned in paragraph (a) of this Article, and if the officer believes there is a risk that the object may be concealed or destroyed, the order shall be deemed, for the purpose of this Act, to authorize the seizure of that object.
(f) It is the responsibility of the police to keep any object seized under this Article in safe custody until the Prosecutor General instructs on a specific course of action regarding that object.
(g) For the purpose of this Article:
(1) "Place" includes a public place, a vehicle, a vessel, a boat, or a specific area of the Maldivian sea.
(2) "Object" includes a vehicle, a vessel, or a boat.

Handing over Seized Property to the Relevant Country
40.
(a) If an object seized in accordance with an order issued under Article 39 of this Act may be evidence that can be used to prove the offense for which a criminal is sought for extradition to a foreign country under this Act, or is an object obtained by committing such an offense, and if an order for the extradition of a criminal from the Maldives has been issued under Article 29 of this Act or a temporary surrender order has been issued under Article 30 of this Act after the conclusion of the hearing held under this Act to decide on the extradition of that criminal, the Prosecutor General may be directed to hand over that object to the country that requested their extradition.
(b) If, upon the conclusion of the hearing held under this Act to decide on the extradition of the criminal, an order for the extradition of the criminal from the Maldives has not been issued under Article 29 of this Act, the Prosecutor General shall order the return of the object mentioned in paragraph (a) of this Article to the person from whom it was seized, unless the Prosecutor General finds that, in the interest of justice in the requesting country, it is most just to send the object to that country.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Article, if the property seized under an order issued under Article 39 of this Act is property in which a third party has an interest, permission to transfer that property to that country shall be granted only if that country provides an assurance that the property will be returned to the Maldives at that country's expense upon the conclusion of the criminal proceedings in that country.
(d) If property seized under an order issued under Article 39 of this Act is not handed over to the country requesting the extradition of the criminal under paragraph (a) of this Article, that property shall be confiscated by the state. And that property shall be dealt with in accordance with the relevant law concerning the confiscation of property by the state.

Escape of a Person in Custody
41.
(a) If there is reasonable evidence to believe that a criminal detained under this Act has escaped, the police have the power to arrest them without a court order.
(b) A criminal arrested under paragraph (a) of this Article shall be brought before the court at the earliest opportunity, and no later than 24 (twenty-four) hours, for the court to determine whether they escaped from lawful custody.
(c) If it is proven to the court that the person brought before it under paragraph (b) of this Article escaped from lawful custody, the court shall order their re-arrest.

Arrest of a Person Released on Bail
42.
(a) If there is reasonable evidence to believe that a criminal released on bail under this Act has breached or is likely to breach a condition of their release, the police have the power to arrest them without a court order.
(b) A person arrested under paragraph (a) of this Article shall be brought before the court at the earliest opportunity, and no later than 24 (twenty-four) hours, to decide on their detention in custody.

Transit
43.
(a) If the country to which a foreign criminal is being extradited to a third country requests transit through the Maldives during that journey, and if the following conditions are met in relation to such a request, the Prosecutor General may grant permission for the transit of that criminal through the Maldives in the custody of a relevant person from that country.
(1) The country to which the criminal is being taken has requested permission for transit before the criminal is brought to the Maldives; and
(2) The country requesting transit permission is a country designated as an extraditable country under this Act.
(b) If the Prosecutor General grants permission for the transit of a criminal through the Maldives under paragraph (a) of this Article, assistance from the Maldives Police Service may be provided to the relevant officer of that country who is in charge of the transiting criminal.
(c) If permission is granted for the transit of a criminal through the Maldives under paragraph (a) of this Article, the Prosecutor General shall order the criminal to be kept in custody as determined by the Prosecutor General from the time the vessel carrying the criminal lands or ports in the Maldives until it departs from the Maldives.
(d) A criminal shall be detained for more than 24 (twenty-four) hours under paragraph (c) of this Article only if they are brought before a court to request an order for their detention, and if such an order is issued by the court, in accordance with that order.

Part Three
Extradition of Criminals in Foreign Countries to the Maldives

Chapter Ten
Requesting Extradition of Criminals in Foreign Countries to the Maldives

Extradition of Criminals in Foreign Countries to the Maldives
44.
(a) If it is believed that a criminal who has committed an offense under the law of the Maldives is in a foreign country, the Minister of Foreign Affairs may request the relevant authority of that country to extradite them to the Maldives for the following purposes.
(1) For the prosecution in connection with the offense for which the person is accused of committing; or
(2) If the person has been convicted of a crime, sentenced, but the punishment has not been determined, to determine the punishment and enforce the sentence; or
(3) If the person has been convicted of a crime, sentenced, and a punishment has been determined, to enforce the sentence.
(b) The Prosecutor General shall determine for the purpose of paragraph (a) of this Article whether a person has been convicted of a crime in the Maldives or is accused of committing a crime.
(c) If a criminal extradited to the Maldives under paragraph (a) of this Article has committed another offense before being brought to the Maldives, apart from the offense for which they were extradited, this Act ensures that they will not be detained, arrested, prosecuted, or transferred to a third country in connection with such an offense, except in the following circumstances.
(1) The offense is a lesser offense established by the act of the offense for which they were brought to the Maldives, or an offense punishable by an equivalent or lesser penalty;
(2) The offense is another offense for which the country from which they were brought has granted permission for their prosecution in the Maldives;
(3) The country from which they were brought has granted permission for their extradition to a third country.
(d) If a criminal extradited to the Maldives under this Chapter is prosecuted in the Maldives in contravention of paragraph (c) of this Article, it shall be considered a void decision for the purpose of this Act.
(e) The protection afforded by paragraph (c) of this Article is not available if the criminal, after leaving the Maldives, or having had the opportunity to leave the Maldives under this Act, remains in the Maldives.

Persons Temporarily Brought to the Maldives
45.
(a) If a criminal extradited to the Maldives under this Act is a person serving a sentence in the country from which they were brought at the time the request was made, and if the sentence they were serving has not ended when they are brought to the Maldives, and if they have been brought to the Maldives with the intention of returning them to the country from which they were brought to serve the sentence they are required to serve after their trial in the Maldives is concluded, an application may be made to the Prosecutor General before they are brought to the Maldives for a court order for their detention during the period they are in the Maldives.
(b) A person brought to the Maldives under this Article shall not be prosecuted except in connection with the offense for which they were brought to the Maldives.
(c) Upon the conclusion of the trial of a person brought to the Maldives under this Article, they shall be sent back to the country from which they were brought.
(d) If, while a person is under arrest under a court order issued under paragraph (a) of this Article, the country from which they were brought informs that it does not wish for their return, the Prosecutor General shall order their release from custody.
(e) Unless otherwise specified in this Act, if a criminal temporarily brought to the Maldives under this Article is convicted and sentenced after their trial in the Maldives, the sentence imposed on them shall be enforced after the conclusion of their trial in the Maldives, after they have been taken to the country where they were, and after they have served the sentence they were serving in that country, upon their return to the Maldives.

Decision to Prosecute instead of Extradition
46.
If, upon a request under Article 45 of this Act for the extradition of a criminal in a foreign country to the Maldives, that country provides an assurance that it will prosecute the person in that country for the offense for which their extradition was sought instead of extraditing them to the Maldives, the Prosecutor General shall provide the available evidence in the case for their prosecution and shall provide such other assistance as may be available.

Part Four
Miscellaneous

Chapter Eleven
General Provisions

International Treaties
47.
Unless expressly stated otherwise in this Act, the provisions of any international treaty concerning the extradition of criminals to which the Maldives is a party shall not be prejudiced.

Valid Document
48.
A document from a foreign country submitted as evidence under this Act shall be considered a valid document if it is a document signed by the judge of the court of that country where the statement was taken, and bears the state seal of that country or the seal of a judicial authority.

Place of Detention of Criminals
49.
If a court orders the detention of a criminal under this Act, or if the Prosecutor General orders the detention of a criminal in transit, or if a fugitive criminal is arrested in accordance with this Act, such criminals shall be kept in custody under the care of the police.

Costs of Extradition Proceedings
50.
(a) Without prejudice to the extradition treaties to which the Maldives is a party, the following costs shall be borne by the Maldives.
(1) Costs related to extradition proceedings conducted in the Maldives in connection with a request from a foreign country for the extradition of a criminal; and
(2) Costs incurred in connection with the arrest and detention of persons within the territory of the Maldives; and
(3) Costs incurred in connection with the seizure of property in the Maldives.
(b) The country requesting the extradition of a criminal shall bear the costs of translating documents and the costs of extraditing the criminal from the Maldives to that country. This includes costs incurred during transit.
(c) If a request is made for the transit through the Maldives of a foreign criminal being extradited to a third country, the country requesting the transit permit shall be responsible for the costs related to the criminal's stay in the Maldives.

Obtaining Evidence Required for the Extradition of a Criminal to the Maldives
51.
(a) The Prosecutor General may be authorized to obtain the testimony of witnesses required for the extradition of a criminal in a foreign country to the Maldives under this Act.
(b) If permission is granted to obtain evidence under paragraph (a) of this Article, the court shall proceed as follows in obtaining the testimony.
(1) Take the testimony of the witnesses after administering an oath;
(2) Record the testimony given by the witnesses in writing, state which judge took the statement, sign it, and send it to the Prosecutor General.

Making and Implementing Regulations
52.
(a) The regulations required to be made under this Act shall be made by the Prosecutor General.
(b) All regulations required to be made under this Act shall be made and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives within 3 (three) months from the date this Act comes into force.

Commencement of the Act
53.
This Act shall come into force 3 (three) months from the date of its passing, ratification, and publication in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

Definitions
54.
Unless the context otherwise requires in this Act, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given below.
(a) "Authorization to proceed" or "Permission to proceed" means the permission given by the Prosecutor General under Article 16 of this Act to proceed with a request submitted by a country under Article 15 of this Act for the extradition of a foreign criminal in the Maldives to that country.
(b) "Arrest warrant" means an order issued by the High Court for the arrest of a criminal under Article 19 of this Act.
(c) "Provisional arrest warrant" means an order issued by the High Court for the temporary arrest of a criminal under Article 20 of this Act.
(d) "High Court" means the High Court of the Maldives.
(e) "Special court" or "tribunal" means a temporary court or tribunal established in a foreign country for a specific period and for a specific purpose.
(f) "Foreign country" means any country other than the Maldives. This definition includes all territories of that country and all islands under the political authority of that country.
(g) "Court" means the High Court in the first instance of the proceedings. In the appeal stage, it means the Supreme Court.
(h) "Military law" means Act No. 1/2008 (Armed Forces Act) and the regulations made thereunder, and all other laws and regulations made in relation to the military of the Maldives.
(i) "Temporary surrender order" means an order issued by the Prosecutor General under Article 30 of this Act granting permission for the temporary transfer of a criminal from the Maldives.
(j) "Majlis" means the People's Majlis.
(k) "Judge" means, in the appeal stage, a judge of the Supreme Court. In other cases, a judge of the High Court.
(l) "Foreign Minister" or "Minister of Foreign Affairs" means the minister of the government ministry to which the responsibility for implementing foreign policies is assigned at the time.
(m) "Political offense" means an offense which, when considering the circumstances in which it was committed, is deemed to have been committed for a political reason, and is not one of the following offenses.
(1) The offense of intentional homicide or any other form of murder;
(2) The offense of causing grievous bodily harm to a person;
(3) The offense of kidnapping a person, or holding a person hostage, or obtaining money or any other thing by force;
(4) The use of an explosive or any other such weapon in a manner that may endanger a person's life, or cause serious harm to a person, or cause damage to a person's property;
(5) Attempting, conspiring, encouraging, or aiding and abetting in the commission or after the commission of an offense specified in sub-paragraphs (1) to (4) of this paragraph.
(n) "Supreme Court" means the Supreme Court of the Maldives.
(o) "Criminal offense" means offenses that are considered criminal offenses under the law of the Maldives or under the law of the foreign countries requesting the extradition of criminals under this Act.
(p) "Gazette" means the Government Gazette of the Maldives.
(q) "Transit" means the stay in the Maldives, as specified in this Act, in circumstances where a criminal in a foreign country travels through the Maldives while being extradited to another country.
(r) "Prosecutor General" means the person referred to in Article 220 of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives.
