Family Law

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This Act is the law that sets forth the principles to be followed in the Maldives concerning marriage, divorce, maintenance for wife and children, custody of children, guardianship, establishment of paternity, and other matters related to family life.

(b) This Act shall be cited as the Family Law.

Marriage

Entering into Marriage

2.
If a Maldivian citizen marries another Maldivian citizen, or if a Maldivian citizen marries a foreigner, the marriage must be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

Solemnization of Marriage

3.
(a) A marriage in the Maldives shall be solemnized by a judicial officer in the presence of the man and woman seeking to marry, in addition to the guardian (wali) and two witnesses, after one of the two persons desiring to marry has proposed and the other has accepted, the guardian has been obtained in accordance with this Act, and other requirements for marriage under this Act have been fulfilled.

(b) In the circumstances mentioned in Article 9(b) of this Act, upon the guardian of the judge being entrusted to the judicial officer solemnizing the marriage as stated in Article 9(c) of this Act, and in cases where the guardian entrusts another person with the guardianship, upon the presence of the person to whom guardianship is entrusted, the guardian shall be deemed to be present for the purpose of paragraph (a) of this Article.

Minimum Age for Marriage

4.
(a) Except in the circumstances mentioned in paragraph (b) of this Article, a marriage under this Act shall be solemnized only if each of the two persons desiring to marry has completed eighteen years of age according to the Gregorian calendar.

(b) If a person who has not completed eighteen years of age according to the Gregorian calendar applies to marry, and if that person has reached puberty, the Registrar of Marriages is empowered to grant permission for that person to marry, taking into account their physical well-being, financial sufficiency, and the reason for their desire to marry.

Permissible Marriages

5.
Marriage shall be with a person with whom marriage is not forbidden (haram) in Islamic Sharia.

Marriage of a Married Woman

6.
(a) A woman who is the wife of a man, or a woman under the protection ('iṣmah) of a man, cannot enter into another marriage with another man.

(b) A woman divorced by a revocable divorce (raj'ī) cannot, before completing the prescribed waiting period ('iddah), marry a man other than the man she was last married to.

(c) If a divorced woman has been divorced three times (thinfah), she cannot remarry the man who divorced her three times, unless she has married another man, consummated the marriage, been divorced, and completed her 'iddah.

(d) A widowed woman may not remarry before the expiration of four months and ten days according to the Hijri calendar from the date of her husband's death.

Number of Wives a Man Can Marry Concurrently

7.
No man shall be married to more than four women at the same time under one 'iṣmah (marital bond). And if a woman is in her 'iddah (waiting period) from such a man, for the purpose of this Article, it shall be considered as if he has a wife under one 'iṣmah.

Marriage with Non-Muslims

8.
(a) No Maldivian woman shall marry a non-Muslim man.

(b) If any Maldivian man wishes to marry a non-Muslim woman, the marriage can only take place if that non-Muslim woman is a non-Muslim with whom Islamic Sharia permits a Muslim man to marry.

Consent and Guardianship (Wali)

9.
(a) A marriage under this Act shall be solemnized and registered only with the consent of both parties to the marriage, the man and the woman. And it must be with the guardianship (wali) of the guardian of the woman wishing to marry, or with the guardianship of the judge for the marriage as per paragraph (b) of this Article.

(b) If the guardianship of the woman's guardian is not available for any of the following reasons, the marriage can only be contracted with the guardianship of a judge.
(1) Absence of a person in the world who is a guardian by lineage.
(2) The guardian refuses to give consent without a valid reason.
(3) The whereabouts of the guardian are unknown.
(4) The guardian does not meet the conditions for giving guardianship.

(c) If it is established to the court that one of the reasons stated in paragraph (b) of this Article has occurred, and the judge's guardianship is required for a marriage, the judge's guardianship shall be transferred to the judicial official solemnizing the marriage in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

Marriage Gift (Mahr)

10.
(a) Upon the solemnization of the marriage, the woman marrying shall be entitled to the marriage gift (mahr) in accordance with Sharia principles. And it shall be obligatory upon the man marrying to give the marriage gift in accordance with Sharia principles.

(b) The determination of the type and amount of the marriage gift, and the receipt of the marriage gift, is the right of the woman marrying. Therefore, no other party has the right to decide on any of these matters.

(c) Any object of value that is permissible under Sharia, or any benefit or work permitted by Sharia, will suffice as a marriage gift.

Adherence to a Marriage Agreement

11.
(a) This Act does not prevent the two parties involved in a marriage from including, at the time of marriage, the main principles they will follow in building their life together in a written agreement between them, and acting upon that agreement.

(b) The agreement referred to in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be formulated in accordance with the principles of Islamic Sharia.

Marrying More Than One Wife

12.
(a) A man may marry more than one wife only upon application to the Registrar of Marriages in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder, and with the permission of the Registrar of Marriages.

(b) Permission to marry more than one wife shall be granted after assessing whether the man applying for the marriage has the financial capacity to support his wives and all his dependents, and if the reasons for seeking the marriage are acceptable to the Registrar of Marriages when considered in accordance with Sharia principles.

Void Marriage

13.
Any marriage in which the conditions required by Islamic Sharia for the validity of a marriage are not fulfilled is a void marriage.

Permission for Marriage

14.
(a) Permission for marriage shall be granted by the Registrar of Marriages. Therefore, no marriage shall be solemnized without the permission of the Registrar of Marriages.

(b) Permission for marriage shall be granted if the proposed marriage is one that has fulfilled the conditions required to be fulfilled legally and by Sharia.

Application for Marriage

15.
The two persons wishing to marry shall apply for permission to marry to the Registrar of Marriages, in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder, at least seven days before the intended date of the marriage.

Maldivian-Foreigner Marriage

16.
A foreigner and a Maldivian citizen can marry if the following conditions are met:

(a) The man and woman wishing to marry possess the characteristics required for a valid marriage in accordance with Sharia.

(b) If a foreign man is marrying a Maldivian woman, that foreign man must be a person capable of bearing the family expenses, according to the standards assessed by the relevant court in the Maldives.

Declaration by Foreign Men

17.
If a foreign man marries a Maldivian woman, before the marriage takes place, the foreign man must sign a declaration of acceptance of the matters made obligatory upon a foreign man marrying a Maldivian woman by this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

Maldivian-Foreigner Marriages Contracted Before the Enactment of this Act

18.
The provisions of Articles 33 and 34 of this Act shall also apply to Maldivian-foreigner marriages contracted before the enactment of this Act.

Marriage Registration

Registration

19.
(a) Marriages conducted in the Maldives, marriages of Maldivian citizens conducted outside the Maldives, and marriages of Maldivian citizens to foreigners shall be registered in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

(b) No marriage contracted in contravention of this Act shall be registered under this Act.

(c) A marriage mentioned in paragraph (a) of this Article can be registered under this Act upon payment of a fee prescribed in the regulations made under this Act to the Registrar of Marriages.

Marriage Register

20.
(a) There shall be a marriage register in which the information of marriages registered under this Act is recorded.

(b) The Registrar of Marriages shall write down the information of marriages contracted and maintain the register in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

Correction of Errors in the Marriage Register

21.
If any information in the marriage register concerning a marriage is proven to be incorrect, the Registrar shall, in the presence of the married couple, or in the presence of two witnesses if the couple is deceased, draw a line through the place where the incorrect information is written to cancel it, and then write the correct information and sign it.

Marriages Contracted Outside the Maldives

22.
If a Maldivian citizen contracts a marriage outside the Maldives, and if the marriage was contracted in a country where there is an official office of the Maldives, the party who contracted the marriage must apply for registration at that office within two months from the date of marriage, in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder. And if the marriage was contracted in a country where there is no official office of the Maldives, the marriage must be submitted for registration in the Maldives in accordance with this Article within six months from the date of marriage.

Divorce and Dissolution of Marriage

Application for Divorce

23.
(a) If a husband wishes to divorce his wife, he shall do so by submitting the matter to the relevant court with the information specified in the regulations made under this Act, and upon the judge granting permission.

(b) When a husband submits to the court his desire to divorce his wife as stated in paragraph (a) of this Article, if the couple appears in court and the wife states that she has no objection to the divorce, the husband may divorce the wife in court with the permission of the judge.

(c) When a husband submits to the court his desire to divorce his wife as stated in paragraph (a) of this Article, if the wife states that she wants to remain in the marriage with her husband, the judge shall send the case to the family dispute resolution section of the relevant court. If such a section does not exist in the court of that island, the judge shall endeavor to reconcile the couple as provided in Article 25 of this Act.

(d) If the family dispute resolution section informs the judge that a couple could not be reconciled through efforts made in accordance with Article 25 of this Act, and if the judge finds that the couple cannot continue in the marriage amicably, the judge shall grant the husband permission to divorce the wife.

(e) If the family dispute resolution section informs the judge that a couple has been reconciled through efforts made in accordance with Article 25 of this Act, or if the couple informs the court that they have reconciled in any other way, the husband's application to the court for divorce shall become void.

Application for Divorce (by wife)

24.
(a) If a wife wishes to be divorced from her husband for one of the reasons mentioned below, she may submit the matter to the relevant court in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
(1) The husband commits an act that harms the wife's dignity.
(2) The husband is cruel to the wife.
(3) The husband compels the wife to do an act that is forbidden in religion.
(4) The husband, without a valid reason, refrains from having sexual intercourse with the wife for a period longer than four months.

(b) If a wife applies to the court for divorce from her husband as stated in paragraph (a) of this Article, the matter shall be examined, and if the reason for seeking divorce is not one of the reasons mentioned in Article 28 of this Act, the judge shall send the matter to the family dispute resolution section of the relevant court. If such a section does not exist in the court of that island, the judge shall endeavor to reconcile the couple as provided in Article 25 of this Act.

(c) When the family dispute resolution section informs the court that the couple could not be reconciled as per Article 25 of this Act, if the judge finds that the couple cannot remain married, the court shall grant them an irrevocable divorce (bain).

(d) When it is informed that a couple has been reconciled in accordance with Article 25 of this Act, or if the couple informs the court in writing that they have been reconciled in any other way, the wife's application to the court for divorce shall become void.

Reconciliation
25.
(a) Upon a case for reconciliation being sent to the family dispute resolution section under Articles 23 and 24 of this Act, or if such a section does not exist in the court of that island, upon the case being submitted to the court, efforts shall be made to reconcile the couple as soon as possible. And in cases submitted in this manner, the matter of reconciling the couple shall be concluded within a maximum of three months.

(b) The work of reconciling a couple as stated in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be carried out in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

(c) When reconciling a couple as stated in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Article, priority shall be given to reconciling the couple by summoning them and those of their relatives who have information about the matter.

Reconciliation of Marriage (Ruju')

26.
(a) If a marriage is to be reconciled in the Maldives after a revocable divorce, the reconciliation shall be done through the court, in accordance with Sharia principles. However, if the woman objects to the reconciliation of the marriage, and if her objection is for a legally acceptable reason under Sharia, the court shall not reconcile their marriage.

(b) When a marriage is reconciled as stated in paragraph (a) of this Article, the court shall send the information regarding the reconciled marriage to the Registrar of Marriages.

(c) If a court divorces a couple or annuls a marriage under Articles 24, 27, and 28 of this Act, that marriage cannot be reconciled.

Khul' Divorce

27.
This Act does not prevent a divorce by khul' (a divorce at the instance of the wife who gives a consideration to the husband for her release from the marriage tie), by submitting it to the court, in cases where the husband and wife agree for the wife to be divorced in exchange for giving something to the husband.

Annulment of Marriage

28.
If the wife applies to the court for a divorce for any of the reasons stated below, the court shall annul the marriage without referring the matter to the family dispute resolution section mentioned in Article 25 of this Act.

(1) The husband's whereabouts are unknown for a period exceeding one year.
(2) The husband fails to provide maintenance to the wife for three consecutive months, and despite the wife having submitted the matter to the court twice to obtain maintenance, and the court having ordered the husband to provide maintenance on both occasions, the husband still fails to provide maintenance to the wife.
(3) The wife was not aware at the time of marriage that the husband was sexually impotent, and after the marriage, upon the wife submitting the issue, sufficient evidence is obtained for the court to accept that the husband is sexually impotent.
(4) Two years have passed since the husband became insane.
(5) The husband is suffering from a dangerous, contagious disease for which no treatment has been found.
(6) Any other matter arises which permits the annulment of marriage under Islamic Sharia.

Divorce by Three Pronouncements

29.
A wife shall not be divorced by a three-fold pronouncement of divorce. Therefore, when a husband divorces his wife, regardless of the wording used to pronounce the divorce, and no matter how many times the pronouncement of divorce is repeated, the divorce will be a single pronouncement of divorce.

Circumstances Leading to the Presumption of the Husband's Death

30.
If circumstances arise that lead to the belief that the husband is deceased, and after four years have passed with no news of the husband, the court examines the matter and rules that the husband is deceased, the marriage contract between the couple is terminated from the date of the ruling.

Registration of Divorce and Divorce Register

31.
In accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder, divorces shall be registered, and information of the divorces shall be recorded in the divorce register, which shall be maintained by the Registrar of Marriages.

Equitable Distribution of Property Acquired Jointly by the Couple Before Divorce

32.
(a) In the event of the dissolution of a marriage, if the couple has made a marriage agreement as stated in Article 11 of this Act, specifying a procedure for dealing with property and money acquired jointly during the marriage, the court has the power to divide the property and money acquired jointly by the couple during the marriage by an equitable distribution between them, as provided in this Article, before granting permission for divorce, or before dissolving the marriage, or before registering the divorce.

(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, whether a marriage agreement as stated in Article 11 of this Act has been made between the couple or not, each party shall be given all the rights that are due to them under Islamic Sharia.

(c) The court shall divide property by equitable distribution under paragraph (a) of this Article in a situation where a dispute arises between the couple on how to deal with the property acquired jointly during the marriage in the event of dissolution of the marriage, in accordance with the agreement made under Article 11 of this Act.

(d) In addition to giving precedence to matters expressly stated in the agreement made under Article 11 of this Act regarding how to deal with property acquired jointly by the couple during the marriage in the event of its dissolution, in order to find a solution to the disputes that have arisen between the couple in this matter, the following procedures shall be completed when the court divides property by equitable distribution under paragraph (a) of this Article.
(1) If there is any property or money acquired jointly by the couple during the marriage, determine what that property is or what the amount of that money is; and
(2) Determine the share or amount due to the husband and the wife from that property or money.

(e) In determining what is the property or money acquired jointly by the couple during the marriage under subparagraph (1) of paragraph (d) of this Article, the court shall consider the following matters.
(1) Out of the property or money acquired separately by the couple before the marriage, if any such property or money has been disposed of during the marriage, and that property or money has gained an increase or appreciation, then based on the proportion of the increase or appreciation, that proportion shall be considered as property or money acquired jointly by the couple during the marriage;
(2) Even if property acquired during the marriage is registered, or money is held, in the name of one of the spouses, this shall not be considered as proof that ownership of that property or money belongs solely to that party.

(f) In determining the share or amount due to the wife and husband from the property or money acquired jointly by the couple during the marriage under subparagraph (1) of paragraph (d) of this Article, the court shall consider the following matters.
(1) The extent to which each spouse has worked for or contributed to acquiring that property or money;
(2) The duration of the marriage;
(3) Even if the wife has no practical or financial contribution in acquiring the property or money, the work done by the wife as a wife or as the mother of the children for the sustenance of the marriage during the marriage;
(4) If any debt related to that property or money has to be paid by either of the spouses, that fact.

(g) When the court divides property by equitable distribution under this Article, if any property designated for division is by its nature difficult to divide, instead of dividing that property, the court is empowered to order that the amount due to each of the spouses from that property be determined after appraising the property at the price at which it can be sold on the market at that time, and to give the money equivalent to that value to one of the spouses and to keep the property with the other party.

(h) The party who will retain the property after giving the money under paragraph (g) of this Article shall be determined by agreement between the two spouses.

(i) In a situation where the two spouses cannot agree as described in paragraph (h) of this Article, the party who will give the money and retain the property shall be determined by the court in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

(j) In this Article, "property and money acquired jointly by the couple during the marriage" refers to movable and immovable property and cash acquired jointly or separately by the couple during the marriage, and the property and money specified in subparagraph (1) of paragraph (e) of this Article and in the regulations made under this Act.

(k) Except in the circumstances specified in paragraph (d) of this Article, for the purposes of this Act, property and money acquired separately by the couple before marriage, and property and money acquired in the individual name of the spouses, and property and money received by way of inheritance, gift (hiba), or will (wasiyyah) shall be interpreted as property and money acquired separately by the couple.

(l) The property and money specified in paragraph (k) of this Article shall be included in the property and money acquired jointly by the couple during the marriage as specified in paragraph (j) of this Article, only in the circumstances specified in subparagraph (1) of paragraph (e) of this Article.

(m) Within 6 (six) months from the date this Act is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives, the Ministry shall make and formulate regulations under this Act to include the following matters.
(1) Standards and principles for determining property acquired separately by the couple before marriage and property acquired in their individual names;
(2) Principles for determining property or money acquired jointly by the couple during the marriage;
(3) Principles for determining the extent to which each spouse has worked for or contributed to acquiring the property or money;
(4) Principles for determining the share or amount due to the wife and husband, based on the duration of the marriage;
(5) Principles regarding the valuation of property and money acquired jointly by the couple during the marriage;
(6) Principles for identifying if property and money acquired separately by the couple before marriage and property and money acquired in their individual names have been disposed of during the marriage, and if that property and money have gained an increase or appreciation;
(7) When dividing property and money acquired jointly by the couple during the marriage by equitable distribution, if any property designated for division is by its nature difficult to divide, the procedure to be followed instead of dividing that property.

Application of this Act by Foreigners in Divorce

33.
Even a foreigner married to a Maldivian citizen must divorce or be divorced in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

Maintenance to be Paid by a Maldivian Man if He Divorces a Foreign Wife

34.
If a Maldivian man divorces his foreign wife, in addition to other expenses required under this Act, the husband shall make arrangements for the wife to be sent to her home country and shall pay all expenses incurred for that purpose.

Maintenance

Provision of Maintenance

35.
If the spouses have not reached an agreement regarding the expenses of the children and the wife in a manner that does not conflict with the principles of Sharia, before granting permission for divorce, or before dissolving the marriage, or before registering the divorce, the court shall decide on the period and amount of maintenance to be given to the wife, the children, and the divorced woman in accordance with this Act and Sharia principles, and shall order the husband or the divorced man to pay those expenses.

Determination of the Amount of Maintenance

36.
The period and amount of maintenance to be given to the wife, children, and the divorced woman shall be determined by the court in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

Interim Maintenance

37.
The court is empowered to determine how interim maintenance shall be paid until the court makes a final decision regarding the payment of maintenance.

Right to Accommodation

38.
If the wife was living in the husband's house during the marriage, she shall not be removed from the house where the couple lived during the marriage against her will during the 'iddah period, or if the custody of the children has been entrusted to the woman, for as long as she has custody, unless the man provides her with another place to live.

Possible Measures for Providing Maintenance to Children

39.
When the court issues a judgment ordering the payment of maintenance to the wife, children, and a divorced woman, in order to ensure that the person liable to pay maintenance will pay the money due as maintenance, the court is empowered to order that an asset of the person liable to pay maintenance be entrusted to a specific party and maintenance be paid from the income derived from it, or to order a person who takes responsibility or becomes a guarantor on behalf of the person liable to pay maintenance to pay the maintenance, or to order that a portion of the income received by the person liable to pay maintenance be set aside and that portion be given as maintenance.

Custody (Hadanah)

Right to Custody

40.
(a) As provided in this Act, the primary person to whom the custody of a child is entrusted is the child's mother.

(b) If the judge finds that the mother does not meet the conditions for entrusting custody of a child as specified in Article 41 of this Act, the court shall determine the party to whom the right of custody shall be entrusted, giving priority to the persons mentioned in the order specified in the regulations made under this Act.

(c) If the custody of a female child is entrusted to a male, he must be a man with whom marriage to the child is prohibited (mahram).

(d) In entrusting the custody of a child, if there is more than one person of equal degree of kinship, the custody of that child shall be entrusted to the person among them who appears to be the most affectionate and has the best morals towards the child.

(e) In entrusting the custody of the child in accordance with this Article, it shall be done in the best interest of the child's welfare.

Conditions for Obtaining Custody

41.
The person to whom the custody of the child is entrusted must possess the following characteristics:
(a) Be a Muslim.
(b) Be of sound mind.
(c) Be a person capable of giving the affection and care required to raise and nurture the child.
(d) Not be a person who commits immoral acts forbidden in Islamic Sharia.

And in addition to possessing the characteristics mentioned in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this Article, the place where that person lives must be a place that will not have any adverse effect on the child morally or physically.

Loss of the Right to Custody

42.
The right to custody shall be lost if one of the following occurs:
(a) If the person entrusted with custody is the child's mother, her marriage to a man who is not a mahram (unmarriageable kin) of the child.
(b) The person entrusted with custody is a person who openly commits immoral acts forbidden in Islamic Sharia.
(c) If custody is entrusted to the child's mother, except for the mother taking the child to her own island, the person entrusted with custody changing their island of residence without the consent of the child's father or guardian, or the person entrusted with custody changing their residence in such a way as to prejudice the father's right to visit the child.
(d) Apostasy.
(e) The person entrusted with custody neglects the child or is cruel to the child.

Regaining Custody

43.
If it is proven that the matters specified in paragraph (a) of Article 42 of this Act are not present in the child's mother, custody shall be returned to the child's mother.

Duration of Custody

44.
(a) The person to whom custody is entrusted shall have custody of the child until the child completes seven years of age according to the Hijri calendar. However, if the person to whom custody is entrusted requests in court, the court has the discretion to entrust the custody of a female child to them until she completes eleven years of age according to the Hijri calendar, and a male child until he completes nine years of age according to the Hijri calendar.

(b) Upon the expiry of the custody period, or upon reaching the age of custody, unless the court orders otherwise, the child has the right to live with the parent of their choice.

Entrusting Custody with Specific Conditions

45.
When entrusting the custody of a child, the court has the discretion to entrust the custody of that child with conditions, in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

Person Entrusted with Child's Custody Taking the Child Out of the Country

46.
In a situation where any court proceedings concerning a marriage of a person entrusted with the custody of a child are ongoing, if the child's mother or father requests in court, the court has the power to prohibit the person entrusted with the child's custody from taking the child out of the Maldives.

Guardianship and Property of the Child

Classification of Guardians

47.
The guardians of a child are classified as follows, comprising the primary Sharia guardian, Sharia guardians, and legal guardians. In this Act:

(a) The primary Sharia guardian of the child is the child's father.
(b) Sharia guardians are those parties to whom the guardianship of the child devolves according to Sharia principles, due to their relationship with the child by lineage.
(c) Legal guardians are guardians appointed by the court in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder, in the absence of the primary Sharia guardian and any of the Sharia guardians.

Devolution of Guardianship

48.
(a) Regardless of who is entrusted with the right of custody, the primary Sharia guardian of the child and the child's property is the child's father until the child completes eighteen years of age.

(b) If the primary Sharia guardian of the child is deceased, the Sharia guardianship of the child shall devolve in the order specified among the parties mentioned in the regulations made under this Act.

(c) If there is no primary Sharia guardian as specified in paragraph (a) of this Article or a Sharia guardian as specified in paragraph (b) of this Article for the child, the court is empowered to appoint and remove a legal guardian for the child, with or without specific conditions, giving priority to safeguarding the child's welfare, after considering the matters specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Conditions for Obtaining Guardianship

49.
The person to whom the court entrusts the guardianship of the child must possess the following characteristics:
(1) Be a Muslim.
(2) Have reached the age of puberty (baligh).
(3) Be of sound mind.
(4) Be trustworthy.

Powers of Guardians Regarding the Child's Property

50.
(a) A Sharia guardian does not have the power to sell any of the child's property, except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Article. And a legal guardian does not have the power to deal with any of the child's property, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this Article.

(b) Immovable property from among the child's property may be sold by a Sharia guardian in the following circumstances:
(1) If by selling the property, at least twice the original value of the property can be obtained.
(2) If the child has no other property, and there is no other way to obtain money for the child's food and drink except by selling the immovable property.
(3) If it appears that the property may be damaged and perish.

(c) Movable property from among the child's property may be sold or pledged by a Sharia guardian in the following circumstances:
(1) When it is necessary to obtain money for the child's food and drink, medical treatment, clothing, and education.
(2) If a reasonable price can be obtained for the property.

(d) A legal guardian of a child may give any of the child's property to another person, or sell it, or pledge it, or exchange it for something else, or lease it for a period longer than one year, only with the permission of the court. The court shall not grant such permission except for the welfare of the child and to protect the child's property and money.

(e) Any transaction carried out by a legal guardian of a child without obtaining a court order as provided in paragraph (d) of this Article is a void transaction. And the court is empowered to order the return of that property to the child's assets.

Entrusting the Mother with the Management and Transaction of the Child's Property

51.
Even if the guardianship of the child is entrusted to another party under this Act, this Act does not prevent entrusting the mother of the child with the power to manage the child's property and to transact with it, in order to maintain the child's welfare in a good manner. In accordance with this Article, the child's mother may transact with the child's property in the manner specified in Article 50 of this Act for legal guardians to act with regard to children's property.

Paternity and Establishment of Lineage

Paternity

52.
(a) The minimum period for establishing paternity is six Hijri months from the time of marriage.
(b) The maximum period for establishing paternity is one Hijri year from the time of divorce or from the time of the husband's death.
(c) This article does not prevent the denial of a child's lineage through Li'an (oath of condemnation) as prescribed in Islamic Sharia.

Children of a Void Marriage

53.
If a marriage is later proven to be a void marriage and is dissolved, the lineage of any children born of that marriage shall be established to the man who was in that marriage.

Establishing Lineage

54.
Whenever a man wishes to establish through the court that a particular child is his legitimate child, he may submit the matter to the court. And in such cases requesting the establishment of lineage, lineage can be established upon presenting evidence to a degree acceptable to the court regarding the matters specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Care of Children and Arrangement of Their Expenses

Party to Care for Children of Financially Incapable Fathers

55.
(a) If it is proven to the court that the father of financially incapable children under the age of eighteen according to the Gregorian calendar is a person who does not have the financial capacity to care for those children, the court shall discuss with the relatives of those children about the care and arrangement of the expenses of those children, and if a group or a person among them agrees to take charge of it, the court shall entrust the arrangement of the expenses of those children to that group or that person.

(b) In determining the amount of expenses mentioned in paragraph (a) of this Article, the court shall take into consideration the essential needs of the children for whom maintenance is to be provided, the financial capacity of the group or person among the relatives of those children who has taken charge of arranging their expenses as provided in paragraph (a) of this Article, and the proportion in which they will share in the inheritance of those children.

Care for a Fee and Voluntary Care

56.
(a) If there is a party who will voluntarily undertake the care and expenses that must be provided under this Act, and if that party is a suitable party for that purpose, priority shall be given to that party.

(b) Even if there is a party who will voluntarily undertake the care and expenses required under this Act, if the party liable to pay the expenses has no objection to paying them, the care can also be entrusted to a party who undertakes it for a fee.

(c) If the person who is required to be cared for under this Act is a person with the financial capacity to pay the expenses required for the care of children, he does not have the right to object to entrusting the care of the children to another party upon payment of the expenses required under this Act.

Care of Parents and Arrangement of Their Expenses

Children Fulfilling the Essential Needs of Parents

57.
(a) Every person, in order to act in a manner consistent with the status given to parents in Islam, shall, to the extent of their financial capacity, provide their parents with adequate shelter, arrange for their food and drink, provide them with clothing, arrange for their medical treatment, fulfill their other essential needs, and provide them with various considerations and facilities needed in life.

(b) No person shall, under any circumstances, be cruel to their parents or commit an act that harms their dignity.

Responsibility of Children

58.
(a) It is the responsibility of every male child who has completed eighteen years of age according to the Gregorian calendar to provide shelter and to perform other acts that require financial expenditure among the matters mentioned in Article 57 of this Act.

(b) Except for providing shelter and matters requiring financial expenditure as mentioned in paragraph (a) of this Article, male and female children shall be considered equal in giving the considerations due to parents for their rights.

Entrusting the Care of Parents to Another Party

59.
If the person in charge of caring for the parents is a person who has to live outside the island for a long period for the purpose of earning an income or for any other purpose, the matters concerning the care of the parents shall be entrusted to a party acceptable to the court.

Court Entrusting the Care of Parents to a Specific Party

60.
(a) If the court entrusts the matter of the parents' expenses to a specific party among the children, it shall take into consideration the essential needs of the parents, the financial capacity of the party entrusted with the matter of their expenses, and the proportion in which that person will share in the parents' inheritance.

(b) If there is no specific agreement among the children regarding the care of the parents and the payment of their expenses and other considerations, the extent to which the responsible persons shall be responsible for the aforementioned matters shall be determined by the court, taking into consideration the matters mentioned in paragraph (a) of this Article, in a manner appropriate to their circumstances.

Interim Order

61.
Even before a final decision is made on a case submitted to the court regarding the care of parents and their expenses, if the court deems it necessary to temporarily entrust the care of the parents and their expenses to a specific party, the court is empowered to issue an interim order to that effect.

Punishment

Failure to Register Marriage

62.
Failure to apply for the registration of a marriage under Article 19 and Article 22 of this Act is an offense. The punishment for a person convicted of this offense is a fine of MVR 1,000.

Forced Marriage

63.
Forcing any person to marry against their will is an offense. The punishment for a person convicted of this offense is a fine of between MVR 1,000 and MVR 5,000, or banishment for a period not exceeding six months.

Giving False Information

64.
Giving false information for the purpose of contracting a marriage or registering a marriage under this Act is an offense. The punishment for a person convicted of this offense is a fine of between MVR 1,000 and MVR 10,000, or banishment or house arrest for a period of between one year and two years.

Marrying More Than One Person Without Court Permission

65.
It is an offense for a married man to marry more than one wife without obtaining permission as provided in this Act. And if the woman who was married in such a marriage did so with knowledge of the fact, she too has committed an offense. The punishment for a person convicted of this offense is a fine not exceeding MVR 5,000.

Marrying for the Purpose of Dissolving a Three-fold Divorce (Fah Kandan)

66.
It is an offense for a woman who has been divorced three times to marry a person with the intention of dissolving the three-fold divorce (tahleel), and for any person to marry someone for the purpose of dissolving a three-fold divorce, whether at the behest of another person, or for a price or a gift. The punishment for a person convicted of this offense is a fine of MVR 5,000, or banishment for a period not exceeding six months.

Divorcing Outside the Court Without Permission

67.
Divorcing in contravention of this Act is an offense. The punishment for a person convicted of this offense is a fine not exceeding MVR 5,000, or banishment or house arrest for a period not exceeding six months.

Failure to Report an Offense

68.
It is an offense for a person, with knowledge that another person has committed an offense mentioned in this Act or has acted in a manner contrary to what is specified in this Act, to fail to report the matter to the relevant authority. The punishment for a person convicted of this offense is a fine not exceeding MVR 1,000, or banishment or house arrest for a period not exceeding three months.

Living Together After Divorce Without Reconciliation

69.
It is an offense for any person to live together as a married couple after divorcing his wife, without reconciling the marriage in accordance with this Act. And the woman who lives with the man is also committing an offense. The punishment for a person convicted of this offense is a fine not exceeding MVR 1,000, or banishment or house arrest for a period not exceeding six months.

Violation of this Act

70.
Except for the offenses for which punishments are prescribed in this Act, the punishment for a person who acts contrary to what is stated in this Act for acting in a certain way or for not acting in a certain way is a fine not exceeding MVR 1,000, or banishment for a period not exceeding six months.

Miscellaneous Matters

Valid Marriages Contracted When This Act Comes into Force

71.
(a) This Act shall not alter the validity of marriages contracted in accordance with Sharia principles and duly registered in the Maldives before this Act comes into force.
(b) The marriages mentioned in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be deemed to have been registered under this Act upon the commencement of this Act.
(c) Upon the registration of the marriages mentioned in paragraph (a) of this Article under paragraph (b) of this Article, such marriages and matters related to marriage and divorce shall be governed by the provisions of this Act.

Making of Regulations

72.
The regulations to be made under this Act, and the regulations for carrying out the matters mentioned in this Act, shall be made and administered by the Ministry.

Definition

73.
(a) "Judicial Officer" (Sharuee Mauzoonu) refers to any person appointed by the relevant official authority with the permission to conduct marriages for that purpose.
(b) "Registrar of Marriages" refers to any party appointed by the President of the Republic to carry out the functions assigned to the Registrar of Marriages in this Act.
(c) "Judge" (Qazee) refers to any person appointed to conduct trials and pass judgments who is required to perform the duties of a judge as stated in this Act.
(d) "Ministry" refers to the Ministry entrusted with the responsibility of formulating all policies related to the family and overseeing family matters.

Commencement of this Act

74.
This Act shall come into force on the 1st day of July 2001.

Repealed Law

75.
Upon the commencement of this Act, Law No. 3/80 (Maldivian-Foreigner Marriage and Divorce Law) is hereby repealed.
