Fiscal Responsibility Act
Chapter One

Introduction

1. Introduction and Name

(a) This is an Act to specify the principles, targets, and rules related to the State's fiscal matters, to ensure that all fiscal affairs of the State are conducted in a manner that achieves fiscal discipline, and is sustainable, transparent, and accountable.

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Fiscal Responsibility Act".

2. Purpose of the Act

The purpose of this Act is to achieve the following:

(a) To specify the principles, targets, and rules for managing the State's fiscal system in a sustainable, transparent, and accountable manner;

(b) To specify the principles for ensuring that the State's fiscal policy is conducted in a sustainable manner that establishes intergenerational equity;

(c) To specify the principles for the formulation and implementation of the State's medium-term fiscal strategy; and

(d) To facilitate the People's Majlis in overseeing the implementation of the State's fiscal policy by sharing the results of the State's fiscal system management with the People's Majlis, and to specify the principles for holding the government accountable for the State's fiscal matters.

3. Precedence of this Act

(a) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any other law, this Act shall have precedence in the formulation and implementation of the State's fiscal policy and in the conduct of all matters of the State's fiscal system.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, in circumstances where a specific law stipulates particular rules or procedures for formulating and implementing the State's debt strategy, or for taking on, managing, or administering debt in the name of the State, matters relating to State debt shall be conducted in accordance with the rules and procedures specified in that law.

(c) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of this Article, if such a specific law does not specify a particular rule for completing a task related to State debt for the purpose of implementing fiscal policy within the State's fiscal system, the rules specified in this Act shall apply to that matter.

4. Scope of the Act

(a) Unless otherwise specified in this Act, this Act shall apply to the following entities, places, and matters:

(1) Government offices; and

(2) Trust funds established or created under a law, and all other such funds managed by a government office.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, this Act shall not apply to the central bank of the State or the Maldives Monetary Authority, the Pension Fund, and the Sovereign Development Fund.

(c) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, if specific articles of this Act state that this Act applies to State-owned enterprises, local councils, and legal entities formed with the participation of such councils, only the rules specified in those articles shall apply to those entities.
Chapter Two

Principles of Fiscal Policy and the Fiscal Responsibility Charter

5. Principles of Fiscal Policy

(a) The State's fiscal policy shall be determined in accordance with the following main principles, including all expenditures made from the State's finances:

(1) Maintaining the total State debt as a percentage of the Gross Domestic Product within a sustainable level;

(2) Maintaining the overall fiscal balance within a sustainable level in the medium-term; and

(3) Managing fiscal risks in a way that minimizes them.

(b) In determining the State's fiscal policy, in addition to the principles specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the following principles shall be taken into account:

(1) Keeping the growth rate of the State's recurrent expenditure below the growth rate of the State's revenue;

(2) Ensuring that the State's expenditures are commensurate with the results achieved from them;

(3) Establishing intergenerational equity;

(4) Protecting the environment in a sustainable manner;

(5) Prioritizing sustainable national development; and

(6) Prioritizing the search for adequate financing methods for programs run from the State budget before including them in the State budget.

(c) The Minister shall formulate the State's fiscal policy in accordance with subsections (a) and (b) of this Article.

6. Principle for Taking Advances from the Central Bank

(a) The government shall take money on credit from the State's central bank only as an advance for managing the State's cash flow, to be repaid and settled within a maximum of 91 (ninety-one) days. Money may be taken in this manner up to a limit not exceeding 2.5% (two-point-five percent) of the average annual revenue based on the total revenue received by the government over the past 3 (three) years.

(b) Money taken on credit by the government from the State's central bank under subsection (a) of this Article shall be repaid with interest, taking into account the market interest rate at that time.

7. Fiscal Responsibility Charter

Before the expiration of 6 (six) months from the beginning of each presidential term, the Minister shall formulate and publish in the Government Gazette a Fiscal Responsibility Charter, to be effective for the 5 (five) year period of that presidential term, in accordance with this Act.

8. Purposes of the Fiscal Responsibility Charter

The purposes of the Fiscal Responsibility Charter are stated below:

(a) To determine the fiscal targets that the State aims to achieve within the 5 (five) year period of each presidential term, within the macroeconomic and fiscal framework, based on the principles of fiscal policy specified in Article 5 of this Act; and

(b) To ensure that the State's fiscal policy, determined for the 5 (five) year period of each presidential term, is managed in a sustainable and transparent manner.

9. Determining Fiscal Targets

(a) The Minister shall determine in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter the fiscal targets that the State aims to achieve for the 5 (five) year period of each presidential term, within the medium-term macroeconomic and fiscal framework, in a manner that does not conflict with the principles of fiscal policy specified in Article 5 of this Act.

(b) At least 1 (one) fiscal target shall be determined in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter for each of the fiscal policy principles specified in subsection (a) of Article 5 of this Act.

10. Information to be Included in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter

The Fiscal Responsibility Charter shall include the following information:

(a) A statement indicating the State's fiscal policy and the fiscal targets set by the State to be achieved, in a manner not conflicting with the fiscal policy principles specified in Article 5 of this Act, for the implementation of that policy;

(b) Details of the current economic and fiscal situation, with reference to the fiscal targets;

(c) The standards to be used to assess the extent to which the government has achieved the fiscal targets, and the methodology and macroeconomic and fiscal data to be used to calculate those standards;

(d) Details indicating that there is no conflict between the fiscal policy principles specified in Article 5 of this Act and the fiscal targets set in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter, based on macroeconomic and fiscal data, and the assumptions and projections of how things are expected to unfold in the future; and

(e) Other information specified in Schedule 1 of this Act.

11. Approving and Publishing the Fiscal Responsibility Charter

(a) After formulating the Fiscal Responsibility Charter in accordance with this Act, the Minister shall submit it to the Cabinet of Ministers before the beginning of March of the first year of each presidential term.

(b) The Fiscal Responsibility Charter submitted by the Minister under subsection (a) of this Article shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers before the end of March of the first year of the presidential term.

(c) Within a maximum of 14 (fourteen) days from the approval of the Fiscal Responsibility Charter by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Minister shall submit the charter to the People's Majlis and publish it in the Government Gazette.

12. Assessing the Feasibility of Public Sector Investment Programs Before Inclusion in the State Budget

(a) Before including programs planned under the Public Sector Investment Program in the annual State budget, the Minister shall, when determining the State's fiscal policy, assess the feasibility of those programs by evaluating their expected financial, economic, and social benefits, the costs to be incurred, and potential losses.

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this Article, when all entities specified in Article 4 of this Act propose to include programs planned under the Public Sector Investment Program in the State budget, the Minister shall, in a regulation made under this Act, determine the standards for grading programs based on their types and costs, and the principles to be followed in assessing the feasibility of those programs. And that regulation shall include at least the following matters:

(1) That this regulation shall apply to programs under Public-Private Partnerships and programs planned under the Public Sector Investment Program included in the State budget, regardless of how they are financed;

(2) Procedures for evaluating programs planned under the Public Sector Investment Program, taking into account their scale and risks;

(3) Principles for prioritizing the inclusion of programs under the Public Sector Investment Program in the State budget;

(4) Publicly publishing the results of the evaluation of programs proposed for inclusion in the State budget;

(5) Procedures to ensure that the costs allocated for programs included in the State budget are set at a level necessary to complete the program; and

(6) Procedures for monitoring the programs included in the State budget.

13. Upholding Fiscal Policy Principles by the Cabinet of Ministers

In making any decision regarding policies that would affect the State's finances, the Cabinet of Ministers shall adhere to the fiscal policy principles specified in Article 5 of this Act, the Fiscal Responsibility Charter, and all other matters mandated by this Act.

14. Upholding Fiscal Policy Principles by the People's Majlis

In passing any law or making any decision that would affect the State's finances, the People's Majlis shall adhere to the fiscal policy principles specified in Article 5 of this Act, the Fiscal Responsibility Charter specified in Article 7 of this Act, and all other matters mandated by this Act.

15. Exceptional Circumstances for Deviating from Fiscal Policy Principles

(a) Except in the case of updating the Fiscal Responsibility Charter under Article 17 of this Act, all parties specified in Article 4 of this Act shall be exempt from adhering to the principles and rules specified in this Act only in the following circumstances, in the manner specified in subsection (c) of this Article:

(1) A natural disaster causing harm to at least 15% (fifteen percent) of the population residing in the Maldives;

(2) The occurrence of a major, unforeseen economic shock.

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a)(2) of this Article, a major economic shock shall be deemed to have occurred after considering the following:

(1) The growth of the Maldives' real GDP or the number of tourist bed nights in the Maldives falling below 0% (zero percent) for 2 (two) consecutive quarters compared to the same quarters of the previous year;

(2) State revenue falling by more than 25% (twenty-five percent) for 2 (two) consecutive quarters compared to the same quarters of the previous year;

(3) The occurrence of a financial or systemic banking crisis;

(4) The occurrence of a balance of payments crisis.

(c) Exemption from adhering to the principles and rules specified in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter passed under this Act, due to a circumstance specified in subsection (a) of this Article, shall be for a period determined by the People's Majlis, after the Fiscal Responsibility Charter is amended in the manner specified in Article 16 of this Act, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, submitted to the People's Majlis, and the amended charter is passed by the Majlis.

16. Amending the Fiscal Responsibility Charter in Exceptional Circumstances

(a) In the circumstances specified in subsection (a) of Article 15 of this Act, the Minister shall amend the fiscal targets contained in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter and submit it to the Cabinet of Ministers with the following information:

(1) The amended Fiscal Responsibility Charter, including, in addition to the information required to be in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter by Schedule 1 of this Act, the differences between the amended fiscal targets and the previously effective fiscal targets;

(2) An updated Fiscal Strategy Statement, including new operational targets related to the amended fiscal targets and the planned method for returning to the previously effective fiscal targets; and

(3) An updated Debt Strategy, including new operational targets related to the amended fiscal targets.

(b) When submitting the amended Fiscal Responsibility Charter to the Cabinet of Ministers under subsection (a) of this Article, the Minister shall submit to the Cabinet of Ministers the circumstance, from among those specified in Article 15 of this Act, that necessitated the amendment of the Fiscal Responsibility Charter, and the detailed reasons why the fiscal targets had to be amended in connection with that circumstance.

(c) The amended Fiscal Responsibility Charter, the updated Fiscal Strategy Statement, and the Debt Strategy, submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers under subsection (a) of this Article, shall be approved by the Majlis within a maximum of 1 (one) month.

(d) Within a maximum of 14 (fourteen) days from the approval of the Fiscal Responsibility Charter by the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with subsection (c) of this Article, the Minister shall submit the charter to the People's Majlis with all information and documents submitted by the Minister to the Cabinet of Ministers under subsections (a) and (b) of this Article. The Minister shall publish the amended Fiscal Responsibility Charter in the Government Gazette as passed by the People's Majlis, and shall publicly publish the updated Fiscal Strategy Statement and Debt Strategy approved by the Cabinet of Ministers under subsection (c) of this Article.

(e) The Minister shall include the amended fiscal targets from the Fiscal Responsibility Charter amended under this Article in the annual State budget submitted to the People's Majlis for the upcoming financial year, and shall prepare the budget in accordance with the operational targets set out in the updated Fiscal Strategy Statement.

17. Updating the Fiscal Responsibility Charter

(a) Six (6) months before the expiration of a 2 (two) year period from the date of publication of the Fiscal Responsibility Charter in the Government Gazette under subsection (c) of Article 11 of this Act, the Minister may amend the fiscal targets set in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter and update the charter, in a manner that does not conflict with the fiscal policy principles specified in Article 5 of this Act.

(b) If the Minister decides to update the Fiscal Responsibility Charter under subsection (a) of this Article, the Minister shall submit the Fiscal Responsibility Charter to the Cabinet of Ministers for approval with the following information, in addition to the information required to be in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter by Schedule 1 of this Act:

(1) The reason for amending the fiscal targets;

(2) The manner in which the policies set by the State to achieve the amended fiscal targets do not conflict with the fiscal policy principles specified in Article 5 of this Act; and

(3) The estimated period in which the policies set to achieve the amended fiscal targets are projected to be realigned with the fiscal policy principles and fiscal targets.

(c) The updated Fiscal Responsibility Charter submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers under subsection (b) of this Article shall be approved by the Majlis within a maximum of 30 (thirty) days.

(d) Within a maximum of 14 (fourteen) days from the approval of the Fiscal Responsibility Charter by the Cabinet of Ministers under subsection (c) of this Article, the Minister shall submit the charter to the People's Majlis and publish it in the Government Gazette.
Chapter Three

Fiscal Strategy Statement

18. Fiscal Strategy Statement

Before the end of June of each year, the Minister shall prepare and submit to the People's Majlis a Fiscal Strategy Statement that includes the operational targets set to achieve the fiscal targets specified in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter in the medium-term, and which details the State's medium-term fiscal policy.

19. Purposes of the Fiscal Strategy Statement

The purposes of the Fiscal Strategy Statement are stated below:

(a) To detail how the government plans to achieve the fiscal targets specified in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter in the medium-term by setting specific operational targets for each fiscal target; and

(b) To provide information on the State's medium-term fiscal policy, formulated to achieve the medium-term operational targets, to the People's Majlis and the public before the submission of the annual State budget to the People's Majlis.

20. Determining Operational Targets

For each fiscal target determined under Article 9 of this Act, the Minister shall determine in the Fiscal Strategy Statement operational targets that indicate the planned method for achieving that target in the medium-term.

21. Information to be Included in the Fiscal Strategy Statement

The Fiscal Strategy Statement shall include the following information:

(a) The operational targets determined under Article 20 of this Act;

(b) The government's proposed way of formulating the State's fiscal policy in a specific manner to achieve the operational targets in the medium-term, including the following:

(1) New revenue-related policies and the changes the government proposes to make to existing revenue-related policies;

(2) New expenditure-related policies and the changes the government proposes to make to existing expenditure-related policies; and

(3) The fiscal space in the annual State budget for new recurrent expenditure programs and new projects.

(c) The variance between the revenue received and expenditure incurred in the past financial year, the Fiscal Strategy Statement prepared for that year, and the budget for that year;

(d) Revised revenue and expenditure forecasts for the financial year in which the Fiscal Strategy Statement is being prepared;

(e) Medium-term macroeconomic, fiscal, and debt forecasts;

(f) The extent of compliance with the Fiscal Responsibility Charter;

(g) That the operational targets set to be achieved in the medium-term are on a trajectory to achieve the fiscal targets within a 5 (five) year period; and

(h) The extent to which the operational targets set in the Fiscal Strategy prepared in the past financial year and the fiscal targets set in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter were achieved.

22. Approving and Publishing the Fiscal Strategy Statement

(a) After formulating the Fiscal Strategy Statement in accordance with this Act, the Minister shall submit the statement to the Cabinet of Ministers.

(b) After the Fiscal Strategy Statement submitted by the Minister under subsection (a) of this Article is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Minister shall submit the statement to the People's Majlis and publish it publicly.

23. Aligning the Fiscal Strategy Statement with the Annual State Budget

The figures contained in the Fiscal Strategy Statement shall be aligned with the figures contained in the State budget for each financial year, and after updating, the relevant details shall be submitted by the Minister to the People's Majlis along with the State budget for that financial year and published publicly.

24. Formulating the Annual State Budget Based on the Fiscal Strategy Statement

Except in cases explicitly stated otherwise in this Act, the Minister shall ensure that the following are fulfilled in the annual State budget submitted to the People's Majlis each financial year based on the Fiscal Strategy Statement:

(a) That there is no conflict between the fiscal targets set in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter, the operational targets set in the Fiscal Strategy Statement, and the macroeconomic and fiscal forecasts of the annual State budget;

(b) That the annual State budget includes the maximum aggregate expenditure limit for the government from the State's general budget, the maximum limit for borrowing by the State, and the maximum limit for issuing debt guarantees by the State, in a manner that does not conflict with the operational targets set in the Fiscal Strategy Statement and the fiscal targets set in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter; and

(c) That a statement indicating the economic and fiscal situation and outlook of the Maldives is included.
Chapter Four

Budget Outcome Statement

25. Budget Outcome Statement

Within a maximum of 5 (five) months from the end of each financial year, the Minister shall prepare a Budget Outcome Statement containing the results achieved from the State budget of the past financial year, submit it to the People's Majlis and the Auditor General's Office, and publish it publicly.

26. Purposes of the Budget Outcome Statement

The purposes of the Budget Outcome Statement are stated below:

(a) To identify the variances between the annual State budget passed for the past financial year, the expenditure incurred at the end of that financial year, and the revenue received in that year; and

(b) To state the extent to which the goals and targets set to be achieved by the annual State budget passed for the past financial year were met.

27. Information to be Included in the Budget Outcome Statement

The Budget Outcome Statement shall include the following information:

(a) The variance between the revenue forecasted to be received by the State in the annual State budget passed for the past financial year and the revenue received during that year, and related details;

(b) The variance between the expenditure forecasted to be incurred by the State in the annual State budget passed for the past financial year and the expenditure incurred in that year, and related details;

(c) Changes made during the year to the amounts of money allocated to the components included in the annual State budget passed for the past financial year;

(d) The total State debt included in the annual State budget passed for the past financial year, the level of total State debt at the end of that year, and details regarding its composition of external debt, domestic debt, State-guaranteed debt, and debt service costs;

(e) The variance between the forecasts included in the annual State budget passed for the past financial year, including the components of the total State debt specified in subsection (d) of this Article and total contingent liabilities, and related details;

(f) If any previously published fiscal data has been affected by a change in any macroeconomic or fiscal data or accounting principles and standards, that fact and related details;

(g) Based on key performance indicators that show the extent to which the results set to be achieved by the annual State budget were achieved, the extent to which non-financial matters included in the budget were achieved, and the variance between the results achieved from those matters in the past financial year, and related details.

28. Accountability to the People's Majlis regarding the Budget Outcome Statement

The Minister shall appear before the relevant committee of the People's Majlis, within the procedure determined by the Majlis for this purpose, to clarify matters that the Majlis wishes to clarify regarding the Budget Outcome Statement submitted to the People's Majlis under Article 25 of this Act, and shall be accountable.
Chapter Five

Managing Fiscal Risks

29. Fiscal Risks Statement

In each financial year, before submitting the annual State budget for the upcoming year to the People's Majlis, the Minister shall prepare a Fiscal Risks Statement containing the risks to the implementation of the annual State budget passed for the current financial year as it is, submit it to the People's Majlis, and publish it publicly.

30. Purposes of the Fiscal Risks Statement

The purposes of the Fiscal Risks Statement are stated below:

(a) To identify fiscal risks and the reasons that give rise to them; and

(b) To facilitate the taking of necessary measures to mitigate fiscal risks.

31. Information to be Included in the Fiscal Risks Statement

The Fiscal Risks Statement shall include the following information:

(a) Economic risks;

(b) Risks to State revenue;

(c) Risks to State expenditure;

(d) Fiscal risks of construction and infrastructure projects, including Public-Private Partnership projects;

(e) Fiscal risks arising from local councils;

(f) Fiscal risks arising from State-owned enterprises;

(g) Debt risks;

(h) Contingent liability risks;

(i) Fiscal risks arising from climate change and natural disasters;

(j) Fiscal risks arising from the financial sector; and

(k) Information on other areas where other fiscal risks may arise.

32. Mitigating Fiscal Risks

State-owned enterprises, local councils, legal entities formed with the participation of such councils, and all entities specified in Article 4 of this Act shall work to mitigate the risks identified in the Fiscal Risks Statement, in accordance with the "Report on the Government's Compliance with the Fiscal Responsibility Act" prepared by the Auditor General under Article 34 of this Act and the advice given by the Minister.

33. Reporting on Measures Taken to Mitigate Fiscal Risks

State-owned enterprises, local councils, legal entities formed with the participation of such councils, and all entities specified in Article 4 of this Act shall report to the Minister as directed by the Minister on the work being done to mitigate fiscal risks, including details of the measures taken to mitigate fiscal risks in accordance with Article 32 of this Act, the results achieved thereby, the challenges faced, and other relevant information.
Chapter Six

Responsibilities of the Auditor General

34. Report Assessing the Government's Compliance with the Act

(a) Before the end of October of each financial year, the Auditor General shall prepare a report titled "Report on the Government's Compliance with the Fiscal Responsibility Act," assessing the extent to which the government has complied with the principles specified in this Act in the past financial year, and submit it to the Minister and the People's Majlis.

(b) The report specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall state the Auditor General's opinion on the extent to which the Minister has fulfilled the responsibilities required under this Act and other relevant laws regarding the following matters:

(1) Whether the State's fiscal policy has been determined in accordance with the fiscal policy principles specified in subsection (a) of Article 5 of this Act, and whether it has taken into account the fiscal policy principles specified in subsection (b) of that Article;

(2) Whether all information required to be included in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter under Article 10 of this Act has been included in the charter, and if any such required information is missing, that fact and related details;

(3) Whether the fiscal targets required to be determined in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter under Article 9 of this Act have been determined in accordance with the fiscal policy principles specified in Article 5 of this Act;

(4) Whether all information required to be included in the Fiscal Strategy Statement under Article 21 of this Act has been included in the statement, and if any such required information is missing, that fact and related details;

(5) Whether all information required to be included in the Debt Strategy formulated under the Public Debt Act has been included therein, and if any such required information is missing from the strategy, that fact and related details;

(6) Whether there is any conflict between the operational targets and fiscal targets determined under this Act;

(7) Whether all information required to be included in the Budget Outcome Statement under Article 27 of this Act has been included in the statement, and if any such required information is missing, that fact and related details;

(8) In cases of exemption from applying the fiscal policy principles under Article 15 of this Act, whether the government has acted in accordance with that Article;

(9) Whether the Fiscal Responsibility Charter and all other statements required to be submitted to the People's Majlis under this Act have been submitted to the Majlis; and

(10) Whether all information required to be published in the Government Gazette or otherwise under this Act has been so published.

35. Report on Measures Taken by the Government in Response to the Auditor General's Report

(a) The Minister shall prepare a report on the measures taken by the government in the past financial year to rectify the issues highlighted by the Auditor General in the report prepared by the Auditor General under Article 34 of this Act, and the results achieved from those measures.

(b) The report specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be prepared and submitted to the People's Majlis and the Auditor General's Office within a maximum of 5 (five) months from the end of each financial year.
Chapter Seven

Responsibilities of the People's Majlis

36. Fiscal Impact Analysis

(a) Before the People's Majlis passes any law or makes any decision that would affect the State's finances, it shall conduct a "Fiscal Impact Analysis" of that law or decision, assessing the impact on the fiscal policy principles specified in Article 5 of this Act and the fiscal targets set in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter, and indicating how those targets can be maintained.

(b) To facilitate the People's Majlis in conducting the Fiscal Impact Analysis specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the Minister shall, as determined by the People's Majlis, prepare and submit to the People's Majlis a Fiscal Impact Analysis related to bills affecting the State's finances submitted to the People's Majlis, or decisions affecting the State's finances.

(c) Notwithstanding the provision in subsection (b) of this Article, this Article does not prevent the People's Majlis from preparing the Fiscal Impact Analysis specified in subsection (a) of this Article or from having it prepared through a third party determined by the People's Majlis.

(d) The Fiscal Impact Analysis conducted by the People's Majlis under subsection (a) of this Article shall be published publicly.

37. Holding the Government Accountable

To hold the government accountable for the matters required by this Act and for the results achieved in implementing the State's fiscal policy in accordance with the principles specified in this Act, the People's Majlis shall do the following:

(a) Study the Fiscal Responsibility Charter and all other statements submitted to the People's Majlis under this Act through the Finance Committee and other relevant committees of the People's Majlis, and provide advice to the government regarding those documents; and

(b) Provide advice to the government regarding the Fiscal Responsibility Charter and all other statements submitted to the People's Majlis under this Act, taking into account the matters in the Auditor General's report specified in Article 34 of this Act.
Chapter Eight

General Provisions

38. Provision of Information to the Minister by Government Offices

If the Minister requests information required to prepare the Fiscal Responsibility Charter and all other statements and documents that must be prepared under this Act from a party specified in Article 4 of this Act, that party shall provide that information to the Minister in the manner determined by the Minister under a regulation made under this Act.

39. Transitional Provision

(a) Within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act, the first Fiscal Responsibility Charter formulated under Article 7 of this Act shall be formulated, approved in the manner specified in Article 11 of this Act, and published in the Government Gazette.

(b) If a new presidential term has begun when this Act comes into force, the first Fiscal Responsibility Charter formulated under subsection (a) of this Article shall be formulated for the remaining period of that presidential term instead of for 5 (five) years.

(c) For the purpose of subsection (b) of this Article, "a new presidential term has begun" means that the first 18 (eighteen) months of a presidential term have not passed.

(d) Notwithstanding the provision in subsection (a) of Article 17 of this Act, after the publication of the first Fiscal Responsibility Charter formulated under this Act, the charter may be amended and updated 2 (two) years before the end of the presidential term that is ongoing when this Act comes into force, in accordance with the procedures specified in Article 17 of this Act.

40. Schedule

The schedule included in this Act is part of this Act. The schedule shall be read together with this Act.

41. Making of Regulations

Regulations required to be made under this Act shall be formulated by the Minister and published in the Government Gazette within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act.

42. Commencement of the Act

(a) This Act shall come into force 6 (six) months from the date this Act is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, if the President, upon the advice of the Minister, deems that the implementation of the following articles or any of them is contingent upon the introduction of specific rules or systems, the President has the power to decide to postpone the implementation of that article or articles for a period of up to 2 (two) years from the date this Act comes into force.

(1) Article 27(b) of this Act;

(2) Article 27(f) of this Act;

(3) Article 27(k) of this Act.

(c) The President shall decide to postpone the implementation of any article or articles of this Act under subsection (b) of this Article by a Presidential decree published at the time of ratification of this Act. The date on which the President decides for that article or articles to come into force shall be specified in that decree.

43. Repealed Law

Upon the commencement of this Act, Law No. 7/2013 (Public Expenditure Accountability Act) is repealed.

44. Definitions

Unless the context in which a word or phrase is used in this Act clearly indicates otherwise, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given below in relation to them.

(a) "Expenditure" refers to spending made from the allocated budget for various purposes, and spending from other fund accounts. This definition shall not include money disbursed as advances, money disbursed for loan repayment, money paid as capital to foreign financial institutions, and expenditures on long-term investments.

(b) "Grant" refers to aid received by the State in the form of a sum of money, goods, or services, which does not need to be repaid and for which no substitute is required.

(c) "Recurrent expenditure" refers to expenditures that are regularly incurred among the State's expenses, or expenditures that do not create or add to a fixed asset of the State.

(d) "Real GDP" refers to the standard used to measure the total value of goods and services produced in the Maldivian economy, after adjusting for inflation.

(e) "Key Performance Indicators" refers to the standards used to measure and calculate the results achieved from the work for which government offices are responsible and accountable.

(f) "Contingent liability" refers to potential financial obligations that the State may have to bear due to a future event, even if the State does not have full control over it. This definition includes State-guaranteed debt.

(g) "Publicly publish" refers to publishing on the Ministry's website, in the form of a book, or in any other way for public access.

(h) "Intergenerational equity" refers to fairness between generations.

(i) "Revenue" refers to money collected as tax under the authority of a law, profits from State-owned businesses, money received for services rendered, fees collected by the State for various matters, money received as rent for buildings, land, or property owned by the State, money received from the sale of State land or property, and money received as fines and compensation for damages.

(j) "Overall fiscal balance" refers to the amount remaining after deducting the State's total revenue and grants from the State's total expenditure.

(k) "Operational targets" refers to the targets set for the medium-term in the Fiscal Strategy Statement to achieve the fiscal targets specified in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter.

(l) "Minister" refers to the minister of the government ministry to which the responsibility for implementing matters related to the State's finances is assigned at the time.

(m) "Financial year" refers to the period from 1 January to 31 December. In counting this period, the start date and end date of the period are included.

(n) "Macroeconomics" refers to the standards commonly used to assess the health of the economy.

(o) "Macroeconomic and fiscal framework" refers to the model used in formulating the State's medium-term annual budget, by linking forecasts of these two components with the budget and revenue, using macroeconomic and fiscal forecasts.

(p) "Macroeconomic data" refers to the statistical figures related to the standards commonly used to assess the health of the economy.

(q) "Medium-term" refers to a period of three consecutive financial years in the future.

(r) "Fiscal system" refers to matters related to the State's revenue, expenditure, and debt.

(s) "Fiscal forecasts" refers to the forecasts made for the medium-term for the State's revenue and its components, the State's expenditure and its components, and the State's total debt and its components.

(t) "Fiscal targets" refers to the targets set for a period of 5 (five) years in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter to advance the State's finances in a sustainable manner, while increasing economic resilience and bringing financial stability.

(u) "Fiscal Impact Analysis" refers to the report prepared under Article 36 of this Act to assess the impact on the fiscal policy principles specified in Article 5 of this Act and the fiscal targets set in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter, and to indicate ways to maintain those targets, as a result of the commencement of a law passed by the People's Majlis or the implementation of a decision made by the Majlis.

(v) "Fiscal Strategy" refers to the details of how the government plans to achieve the fiscal targets set in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter in the medium-term, and the planned method for implementing fiscal policy.

(w) "Fiscal data" refers to the statistical figures of the State's revenue and its components, the State's expenditure and its components, and the State's total debt and its components for the current and past years.

(x) "Fiscal policy" refers to the policies on State revenue, expenditure, and debt stated in the medium-term fiscal and debt strategy.

(y) "State" for the purpose of this Act, refers to all institutions within the legislative, executive, and judicial branches, all institutions established under the Constitution and laws, and the island councils, atoll councils, and city councils established under Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act of the Maldives), excluding the Maldives Pension Administration Office, the Maldives Monetary Authority, and State-owned enterprises.

(z) "State budget" or "Annual State budget" refers to the budget submitted by the Minister to the People's Majlis under Article 96(a) of the Constitution and passed by the Majlis under Article 96(b) of that Article.

(aa) "State-owned enterprise" refers to companies in which the government holds a majority share and companies to which money is disbursed from the annual State budget for their operation, or as their capital, or for managing their financial affairs.

(bb) "State's general budget" refers to the Consolidated Revenue Fund specified in Law No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act).

(cc) "Government office" refers to all institutions run with expenditure from the State budget that are included within the definition of the State.

(dd) "State debt" refers to all financial obligations arising from financial instruments such as loans, securities, and obligations to make payments related to State-guaranteed debt, for which the State assumes a future financial responsibility to pay the principal and/or interest of the debt.

(ee) "State-guaranteed debt" refers to a legal assurance given by the government to fulfill a debt obligation (in whole or in part) of another legal entity if a pre-determined contingency occurs. This definition does not include other contingent liabilities such as payment guarantees given by the government.

(ff) "Debt Strategy" refers to the strategy formulated under the Public Debt Act for the State's debt policies, to obtain the necessary funds for the State at the lowest cost, and to minimize debt risks.

(gg) "Public Debt Act" refers to the law governing the formulation and implementation of the State's debt strategy, the management, administration, and regulation of State debt, and all matters related to taking on and repaying debt.

(hh) "Total State debt" refers to the total debt taken on by the State, after consolidating the State debt payable from one government office to another.

(ii) "Public Sector Investment Program" refers to the plan of projects that the State plans to implement with priority in the medium-term to establish the infrastructure and construction development facilities needed for the Maldives.

(jj) "Public-Private Partnership projects" refers to projects implemented under a long-term agreement with private businesses.
Schedule 1

Template of the Fiscal Responsibility Charter

1. Introduction

This section shall state the legal status of the Fiscal Responsibility Charter and the purposes of the charter.

2. Statement Indicating Fiscal Targets

(a) In this statement, separate fiscal targets shall be determined for each principle in a way that the extent of adherence to the principles specified in Article 5 of this Act is known.

(b) Each target set in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter shall be linked to a specific principle, and be a measurable, achievable, and time-bound target. The details of these matters shall be included in the statement.

(c) The statement shall include the current economic situation and outlook of the Maldives, the situation and outlook of State revenue, expenditure, and debt, and shall include the overall changes that need to be brought to implement the fiscal policy in accordance with the principles specified in Article 5 of this Act.

3. Fiscal Policy Roadmap

This section shall state the changes proposed to be brought to the fiscal policy over a 5 (five) year period to achieve the fiscal targets set in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter. This may include changes to laws and changes to existing procedures. In addition, information related to the following shall be included in this section:

(a) New revenue policies planned for implementation within the 5 (five) year period, the planned method for implementing those policies, and their impact on revenue;

(b) Details of recurrent programs and capital expenditures planned for implementation within the 5 (five) year period;

(c) A detailed statement showing how the projects planned for implementation during the period of the Fiscal Responsibility Charter under the Public Sector Investment Program (including newly initiated projects) are classified into various categories (the categories of the "Classification of the Functions of Government");

(d) The financing plan for the projects planned to be implemented under the Public Sector Investment Program; and

(e) The expected impact on debt from the State's revenue and expenditure policies, and its relation to the fiscal target set for State debt.

4. How Fiscal Performance will be Assessed and Information Needed for Assessment

(a) The methodology and assumptions used in forecasting the fiscal targets stated under Article 2 of this schedule shall be included in this section.

(b) This section shall highlight the key performance indicators that can be used to determine the extent to which the matters in the fiscal policy roadmap are being achieved.

(c) The data sources used for determining the fiscal targets and for the key performance indicators set to achieve the matters in the fiscal policy roadmap shall be included.

5. Extent to which the Fiscal Responsibility Charter Complies with Fiscal Policy Principles

This section shall state that the fiscal targets set in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter are determined in accordance with the fiscal policy principles specified in Article 5 of this Act, along with relevant details.
