Foreign Exchange Act

Chapter One
Introduction

Introduction and Name
1.
(a) This is the law to determine the transactions that can be conducted in foreign currency in the Maldives, to establish the principles regarding the depositing and conversion of foreign currency income earned by businesses into banks, and to state other matters related to foreign exchange.
(b) This law shall be cited as the "Foreign Exchange Act."

Purpose
2. The main purposes of this law are stated below.
(a) To facilitate ways to obtain foreign currency in the Maldives;
(b) To determine the transactions that can be conducted in foreign currency in the Maldives, including transactions made through bank accounts;
(c) To establish the principles for depositing foreign currency income earned by businesses into a bank account; and
(d) To establish the principles for converting a portion of the income received in foreign currency to Rufiyaa.

Chapter Two
Medium of Monetary Transactions in the Maldives

Transactions in Rufiyaa
3.
(a) Unless expressly stated otherwise in this law or another law, all monetary obligations or transactions in the Maldives shall be offered and settled in Rufiyaa.
(b) With the exception of transactions expressly permitted to be conducted in foreign currency by this law or another law, it is prohibited to offer or settle any monetary obligation or transaction in the Maldives in a foreign currency.

Transactions in Foreign Currency
4. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 3 of this law, the following obligations and transactions may be offered and settled in foreign currency.
(a) Paying and accepting payments permitted to be made to the government or a state institution in a foreign currency under the authority of a law or regulation;
(b) Services provided by banks and financing companies, and transactions between such institutions and their customers;
(c) Transactions between remittance service providers and their customers;
(d) Transactions between insurance companies and their customers related to insurance policies sold to sellers of goods and providers of services in the tourism sector, transactions between insurance intermediaries and customers related to such policies, and other transactions determined in the regulations made under this law from among the transactions conducted by insurance companies;
(e) Transactions conducted in the securities market of the Maldives;
(f) International transactions;
(g) Accepting payment in foreign currency for goods sold to tourists and services rendered to tourists;
(h) Accepting payment in foreign currency for exported goods and services;
(i) If a business that earns income in foreign currency wishes to pay for goods purchased and services acquired in foreign currency, making the payment in foreign currency, and the party that sold the goods or provided the service accepting the payment in foreign currency;
(j) If a business that earns income in foreign currency wishes, giving dividends to shareholders in foreign currency, and other transactions between the business and its shareholders, and transactions between such a business and its related parties;
(k) The buying and selling of shares of a business that earns income in foreign currency, the issuance of bonds or sukuk by such a business, and transactions between the business and its bondholders and sukuk holders;
(l) If a business that earns income in foreign currency wishes, giving salaries and benefits to its employees in foreign currency, and employees accepting salaries and benefits in foreign currency;
(m) Duty-free shops accepting payment from tourists in foreign currency for goods and services sold to tourists, and tourists settling such payments in foreign currency;
(n) Foreign currency obligations determined to be paid under a judgment or order of a judicial court, or a decision of a tribunal or a dispute resolution system such as arbitration;
(o) Other obligations and transactions specified in the regulations made under this law.

Maldivians Not to be Compelled to Pay in Foreign Currency
5. Although it is stated in Article 4 of this law that the obligations and transactions mentioned therein are permitted to be offered and settled in foreign currency, a Maldivian shall not be compelled to pay in foreign currency for goods purchased and services acquired in the Maldives, except in matters where the government, state institutions, and financial institutions have determined to transact in foreign currency in accordance with the law.

Chapter Three
Foreign Currency

Foreign Currency
6.
(a) For the purpose of this law, foreign currency refers to the currency of any country other than the Maldives.
(b) In accordance with the law, it is permissible to bring foreign currency into the Maldives, take foreign currency out of the Maldives, hold and use foreign currency in the Maldives, and invest in foreign currency in the Maldives.
(c) It is permissible to open and use a foreign currency account in a bank, as determined by that bank.

Chapter Four
Depositing Foreign Currency Income

Depositing Foreign Currency Income into a Bank Account
7.
(a) The realized sales proceeds in foreign currency received within a calendar month for goods sold or services provided by the following parties must be transferred or deposited in full into a foreign currency account opened in a bank before the 28th (twenty-eighth) day of the third month following that month.
(1) Sellers of goods and providers of services in the tourism sector; and
(2) Parties, other than those mentioned in sub-paragraph (a)(1) of this Article and financial institutions, who receive an amount equivalent to at least 15,000,000.00 (fifteen million) United States Dollars in foreign currency for goods sold or services provided within the past calendar year.
(b) The foreign currency deposited under sub-paragraph (a) of this Article may be deposited in any foreign currency for which the depositing bank opens a foreign currency account and which is approved by the Authority.

Provision of Information by Government Agencies
8.
(a) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any other law, upon request by the Authority, MIRA shall provide the Authority with information and accounts of the parties specified in Article 7 of this law, to the extent necessary to achieve the objectives of this law.
(b) Information regarding tourist resorts, integrated tourist resorts, private islands, resort hotels, tourist vessels, tourist hotels, tourist guesthouses, and other such places registered under Law No. 2/99 (Maldives Tourism Act) at the time of commencement of this law, shall be shared with the Authority by the Ministry of Tourism within a maximum of 1 (one) month from the date of commencement of this law.
(c) Information regarding tourist resorts, integrated tourist resorts, private islands, resort hotels, tourist vessels, tourist hotels, tourist guesthouses, and other such places registered under Law No. 2/99 (Maldives Tourism Act) after the commencement of this law shall be shared with the Authority by the Ministry of Tourism within a maximum of 1 (one) month from the date of registration of any such place.
(d) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any other law, the Registrar of Companies shall share with the Authority the information required by the Authority to enforce this law.
(e) Any information obtained by the Authority under sub-paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this Article shall not be used for any purpose other than to enforce this law and achieve the objectives of this law.

Chapter Five
Conversion of a Portion of Foreign Currency Earnings to Rufiyaa

Parties Required to Convert Foreign Currency Earnings
9. The parties who are obligated to convert foreign currency as specified in Article 10 of this law are stated below.
(a) "Category-A Tourism Establishment": This category includes tourist resorts, integrated tourist resorts, private islands, resort hotels, and other such establishments operating in the Maldives, registered under Law No. 2/99 (Maldives Tourism Act).
(b) "Category-B Tourism Establishment": This category includes tourist vessels, tourist hotels, and tourist guesthouses registered under Law No. 2/99 (Maldives Tourism Act).
(c) Parties, other than those mentioned in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Article and financial institutions, who have received an amount equivalent to at least 15,000,000.00 (fifteen million) United States Dollars in foreign currency for goods sold or services provided within the past calendar year.

Conversion of a Portion of Foreign Currency Earnings
10.
(a) Category-A Tourism Establishments shall convert an amount of foreign currency, determined by one of the following two methods at the discretion of the establishment, to Rufiyaa at a bank by the operator of the establishment.
(1) An amount calculated at a rate of 500.00 (five hundred) United States Dollars for each tourist arriving at the establishment within a calendar month, based on the total number of tourists who have arrived in that month; or
(2) 20% (twenty percent) of the gross sales in foreign currency of the establishment within a calendar month.
(b) Category-B Tourism Establishments shall convert an amount of foreign currency, determined by one of the following two methods at the discretion of the establishment, to Rufiyaa at a bank by the operator of the establishment.
(1) An amount calculated at a rate of 25 (twenty-five) United States Dollars for each tourist arriving at the establishment within a calendar month, based on the total number of tourists who have arrived in that month; or
(2) 20% (twenty percent) of the gross sales in foreign currency of the establishment within a calendar month.
(c) Parties specified in sub-paragraph (c) of Article 9 of this law shall convert 20% (twenty percent) of their gross sales in foreign currency from goods sold or services provided within a calendar month to Rufiyaa at a bank.
(d) The currency required to be converted to a bank for each calendar month under sub-paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this Article must be converted and completed before the 28th (twenty-eighth) day of the third month following that month.

Parties and Circumstances Exempted from Foreign Currency Conversion
11.
(a) For the purpose of sub-paragraph (a)(1) and sub-paragraph (b)(1) of Article 10 of this law, the following persons shall not be included when calculating the tourists arriving at a tourism establishment as specified in that Article.
(1) Tourists who have spent not more than 24 (twenty-four) hours at the tourism establishment;
(2) Children under the age of 12 (twelve) among the tourists;
(3) Persons staying at the tourism establishment free of charge or on a complimentary basis;
(4) Guests who have been granted special privileges by the Government.
(b) Among the tourist vessels specified in sub-paragraph (b) of Article 9 of this law, tourist vessels registered and operated outside the Maldives shall be exempted from this law.

Review of the Amount of Foreign Currency to be Converted
12.
(a) If a party specified in Article 9 of this law, after calculating the amount of foreign currency to be converted as specified in Article 10 of this law, submits to the Authority stating that converting this amount would result in the party not having sufficient foreign currency to meet the following foreign currency obligation or obligations, and if the Authority is convinced that such an amount of foreign currency will not be available, the Authority may grant permission to convert a lesser amount than that specified in Article 10 of this law for a period determined by the Authority.
(1) Taxes payable in foreign currency and obligations to the government payable in foreign currency;
(2) Debt payable in foreign currency to a foreign financial institution operating in or outside the Maldives;
(3) Foreign currency obligations determined to be paid under a judgment or order of a judicial court, or a decision of a tribunal or a dispute resolution system such as arbitration; or
(4) Other foreign currency obligations authorized by the Authority.
(b) A request for the Authority's permission under sub-paragraph (a) of this Article shall be submitted with details of the foreign currency obligations to be settled and other information and documents determined by the Authority.

Selling Foreign Currency Converted to a Bank, to the Authority
13.
(a) A bank shall sell to the Authority a specific percentage, determined by the Authority, of the foreign currency received by the bank under Article 10 of this law, within a period determined by the Authority.
(b) Details of the foreign currency received by a bank within a month under Article 10 of this law shall be submitted by that bank to the Authority within a period and in a manner determined by the Authority.

Chapter Six
Investigating and Taking Action Against Violators of the Law

Power to Investigate Violators of the Law
14.
(a) The Authority is empowered to investigate and take action on cases of parties believed to have violated this law and the regulations made hereunder, cases of parties believed to have falsified accounts and information in carrying out the requirements of this law, and cases of parties who violate directives issued by the Authority under this law.
(b) The powers vested in the Authority and the procedures to be followed in investigating cases as specified in sub-paragraph (a) of this Article shall be stated in the regulations made under this law.

Taking Action Against Violators of the Law
15.
(a) The Authority is empowered to fine parties who do not transfer or deposit foreign currency to a foreign currency account opened in a bank as specified in Article 7 of this law, and parties who do not deposit the specified amount, by an amount not exceeding 0.25% (zero point two five percent) of the foreign currency required to be deposited for that month. Furthermore, when imposing such a fine, if the Authority deems it appropriate, the Authority may decide to fine such a party an amount not exceeding 0.25% (zero point two five percent) of the foreign currency required to be deposited for that month, for each day that passes until the violation is rectified or the required actions are complied with.
(b) The Authority is empowered to fine parties who do not convert foreign currency to Rufiyaa as specified in Article 10 of this law, and parties who do not convert the specified amount, by an amount not exceeding 0.5% (zero point five percent) of the foreign currency required to be converted for that month. Furthermore, when imposing a fine, if the Authority deems it appropriate, the Authority may decide to fine such a party an amount not exceeding 0.5% (zero point five percent) of the foreign currency required to be converted for that month, for each day that passes until the violation is rectified or the required actions are complied with.
(c) With the exception of the matters stated in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Article, the Authority is empowered to fine parties who violate this law or a regulation made under this law, or a directive issued by the Authority under this law or a regulation made hereunder, by an amount between 10,000 (ten thousand) Rufiyaa and 1,000,000 (one million) Rufiyaa, based on the gravity of their action.
(d) The Authority has the discretion to impose fines in foreign currency when fining under sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Article.

Suspension of Licenses for a Specific Period for Parties who do not pay Fines
16. If a party that has been fined by the Authority under this law and has been instructed to pay the fine fails to pay the fine within 90 (ninety) days from the date the Authority issued the instruction, the Authority is empowered to instruct the relevant government agency to suspend the business licenses issued to that party by state institutions for a specific period, in accordance with the regulations made under this law.

Recovering Fines
17.
(a) In addition to taking action against a party for non-payment of a fine as specified in Article 16 of this law, the Authority is empowered to recover the fine by submitting the matter to court.
(b) Before submitting the case of a party liable to pay a fine to court as stated in sub-paragraph (a) of this Article, the Authority is empowered to arrange lenient options for the party to pay the due fine, in a manner prescribed in the regulations made by the Authority under this law.
(c) A case submitted to court under sub-paragraph (a) of this Article shall be heard and decided upon by the court within a maximum of 180 (one hundred and eighty) days from the date of its submission.

Chapter Seven
Miscellaneous

Registration with the Authority
18.
(a) Parties selling goods and providing services in the tourism sector at the time of commencement of this law shall submit an application to the Authority for registration within 10 (ten) days of the commencement of this law.
(b) Parties registered with the Authority for the purposes of Regulation No. 2024/R-91 (Foreign Exchange Regulation) at the time of commencement of this law shall be considered as parties registered under sub-paragraph (a) of this Article.
(c) Parties who meet the criteria specified in sub-paragraph (a)(2) of Article 7 of this law at the time of commencement of this law shall apply for registration with the Authority within 30 (thirty) days from the date of commencement of this law.
(d) Parties who begin to provide a good or service in the tourism sector after the date of commencement of this law shall apply for registration with the Authority within 30 (thirty) days from the date of commencing the business.
(e) From among the parties who start a business other than providing goods or services in the tourism sector and financial institutions after the date of commencement of this law, those who have received foreign currency equal to or exceeding 15,000,000.00 (fifteen million) United States Dollars for goods sold and services provided by the end of a calendar year shall apply for registration with the Authority before the end of January of the following calendar year.
(f) The information and documents to be submitted for registration under this Article, and the procedures and formalities to be followed in applying for and completing registration, shall be stated in the regulations made under this law.

Submission of Information and Record Keeping
19.
(a) To obtain the information required by the Authority under this law or the regulations made hereunder, the parties to whom this law applies shall submit to the Authority the information, documents, and reports as instructed by the Authority, in the manner and with the details instructed by the Authority.
(b) Parties to whom this law applies shall maintain the information and accounts specified by the Authority for a period determined by the Authority.
(c) For the purpose of sub-paragraph (b) of this Article, this Article does not preclude the keeping of records electronically.

Responsibilities and Powers of the Authority
20.
(a) This law shall be administered and enforced by the Authority.
(b) The Authority is empowered to do the following in enforcing this law.
(1) Formulating and implementing policies necessary for the proper development and maintenance of the foreign exchange market of the Maldives;
(2) Formulating regulations, circulars, principles, instructions, orders, procedures, and guidelines for the implementation and administration of this law, and monitoring compliance with them;
(3) Determining the transactions that can be conducted in foreign currency in the Maldives, including transactions made through bank accounts; and
(4) Doing all other things necessary to achieve the objectives of this law or to administer and enforce this law.

Confidentiality
21. Unless required by a court of law for legal purposes, or in the performance of the duties or work obligations of the Authority they are fulfilling, no member of the Board of the Authority, any former member of the Board, any employee or former employee, or any agent or consultant of the Authority shall disclose to any other party any information of any person obtained by the Authority under this law.

Transitional Arrangements
22.
(a) Sellers of goods and providers of services in the tourism sector shall transfer or deposit the total realized sales proceeds in foreign currency received by them in October, November, and December of the year 2024 into a foreign currency account opened in a bank as specified in Regulation No. 2024/R-91 (Foreign Exchange Regulation).
(b) For each tourist who arrived at a Category-A Tourism Establishment as defined in Regulation No. 2024/R-91 (Foreign Exchange Regulation) during October, November, and December of the year 2024, the operator of the establishment shall convert an amount to Rufiyaa at a bank at a rate of 500.00 (five hundred) United States Dollars, as specified in that regulation.
(c) For each tourist who arrived at a Category-B Tourism Establishment as defined in Regulation No. 2024/R-91 (Foreign Exchange Regulation) during October, November, and December of the year 2024, the operator of the establishment shall convert an amount to Rufiyaa at a bank at a rate of 25 (twenty-five) United States Dollars, as specified in that regulation.
(d) The submission of information and other matters determined by the Authority regarding the depositing and conversion of foreign currency in Regulation No. 2024/R-91 (Foreign Exchange Regulation) shall continue as specified in that regulation until the matters under sub-paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this Article are completed.
(e) This law does not prevent the continued application of regulations formulated and implemented under another relevant law before the commencement of this law, for the purpose of organizing and managing a specific matter mentioned in this law, until a regulation related to that matter is made and comes into force under this law, as long as such regulations do not conflict with the principles and rules related to the matter stated in this law.

Repealed Law and Regulation
23.
(a) Upon the commencement of this law, sub-paragraphs (r) and (b) of Article 24 of Law No. 6/81 (Maldives Monetary Authority Act 1981) are repealed.
(b) With the exception of the matters specified in sub-paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of Article 22 of this law, Regulation No. 2024/R-91 (Foreign Exchange Regulation) is repealed upon the commencement of this law.

Enacting and Enforcing Regulations
24.
(a) The regulations to be made under this law shall be made and administered by the Authority.
(b) The regulations to be made under this law shall be formulated by the Authority and published in the Government Gazette within 2 (two) months from the date of commencement of this law.

Commencement of the Law
25. This law shall come into force on 1 January 2025.

Definitions
26. Unless the context in which a phrase or word is used in this law expressly requires a different meaning, the following phrases and words are given the meanings provided below in relation to them.
(a) "Remittance service provider" refers to a party licensed to provide remittance services under Law No. 8/2021 (National Payment System Act).
(b) "International transaction" refers to a transaction of transferring foreign currency from the Maldives to abroad or from abroad to the Maldives.
(c) "Bank" refers to any party licensed or authorized under Law No. 24/2010 (Maldives Banking Act) to conduct banking business, provide a banking service, or carry out a banking activity as specified in that law.
(d) "Foreign currency" refers to the currency of any country other than the Maldives.
(e) "Insurance company" refers to a company licensed by the Authority to conduct insurance business in the Maldives.
(f) "Authority" refers to the Maldives Monetary Authority established under Law No. 6/81 (Maldives Monetary Authority Act 1981).
(g) "Financing company" refers to a company licensed by the Authority to conduct financing business in the Maldives.
(h) "Party" includes natural persons and legal persons.
(i) "MIRA" refers to the Maldives Inland Revenue Authority established under Law No. 3/2010 (Tax Administration Act).
(j) "Financial institution" refers to a party licensed by the Maldives Monetary Authority or the Capital Market Development Authority.
(k) "Capital Market Development Authority" refers to the Capital Market Development Authority established under Law No. 2/2006 (Maldives Financial Securities Act).
(l) "Goods and services of the tourism sector" refers to the goods and services specified as goods and services of the tourism sector in Law No. 10/2011 (Goods and Services Tax Act).
(m) "Tourists" refers to foreigners arriving in the Maldives who hold a tourist visa.
(n) "A business that earns income in foreign currency" refers to any business that receives income in foreign currency. In this regard, it is not necessary for a specific amount of income to be received in foreign currency. If any amount is received as income in foreign currency, it shall be considered a business that earns income in foreign currency.
(o) "State institution" refers to all institutions and offices operating under the executive branch, all institutions and offices operating under the legislative branch, all independent commissions and offices of independent posts established under the Constitution and the law and all institutions and offices operating under them, and all institutions, offices and places operating under the judicial branch.
