Foreign Investment Law
PART ONE

Preliminary Articles

CHAPTER ONE
Commencement

1. Introduction and Name

(a) This is the law that sets out the principles regarding the sectors in which foreign parties can invest in the Maldives, the principles for issuing permits for such parties to invest in the Maldives, the principles regarding the protection and security afforded to such investors, the special circumstances under which such investments may be nationalized by the state, the principles for providing compensation for such nationalized investments, and other related principles.

(b) This law shall be cited as the "Foreign Investment Law".

2. Purpose

The purpose of this law is to achieve the following:

(a) To increase foreign investments in the Maldives and, through these investments, create a favorable environment for bringing foreign capital, technology, knowledge, and skills to the Maldives, and to establish principles regarding the following in order to develop the Maldivian economy:

(1) Establishing principles for promoting investment in the international arena to create and sustain the interest of foreign investors to invest in the Maldives;

(2) Determining the sectors in which foreign parties can invest in the Maldives and the conditions for investing in those sectors;

(3) Establishing the procedures and conditions for granting investment permits to foreign parties investing in the Maldives;

(4) Determining the responsibilities of foreign investors investing in the Maldives, the scope of protection and security afforded to them, and establishing principles for taking action against those who violate the law.

(b) To establish principles for implementing the obligations under international investment and trade treaties to which the Maldives is a party.

3. Scope of the Law

(a) The principles stated in Part Two of this law [the chapters from Chapter Two to the end of Chapter Five] shall apply to all matters related to Foreign Direct Investment made by foreign parties in the Maldives.

(b) The principles stated in Part Three of this law [Chapter Six] shall apply to matters related to the implementation in the Maldives of obligations under international investment and trade treaties and agreements to which the Maldives is a party.
PART TWO

Regarding Foreign Investment

CHAPTER TWO
Investment Promotion and Determination of Investment Sectors

4. Responsibility for Investment Promotion

The responsibility for promoting investment in the international arena to create and increase the interest of foreign investors to invest in the Maldives shall be carried out by the Ministry.

5. Planning and Conducting Investment Promotion Activities

In promoting investment, the Ministry shall plan and conduct the following activities:

(a) Identifying the investments needed in various sectors in connection with the policies set by the government to achieve the economic, social, and developmental plans and goals of the Maldives, conducting relevant research, and preparing feasibility reports;

(b) Providing information to parties interested in investing in partnership with foreign parties about the investment opportunities in the Maldives, and clarifying the related procedures;

(c) Analyzing statistics related to foreign investment.

6. Investment Only in Designated Sectors and with a Permit

A foreign party may establish an investment in the Maldives only in sectors designated under this law as open to foreign investors, and after obtaining a permit to invest in any such sector in accordance with this law.

7. Sectors for Foreign Investment

Foreign parties may invest in the following investment sectors in the Maldives:

(a) Open sectors;

(b) Sectors where investment is permitted with conditions.

8. Open Sectors

Unless otherwise stated in another law, every sector, except for those designated by the Minister under Article 11 of this law as sectors where foreign investors are absolutely prohibited from investing or sectors where investment is only allowed upon fulfillment of specific conditions, shall be open sectors for foreign investors to invest in the Maldives without any hindrance.

9. Sectors Where Investment is Permitted with Conditions

Unless otherwise stated in another law, sectors where foreign investors are permitted to invest with conditions are those designated by the Minister under Article 11(a)(2) of this law as sectors where foreign parties cannot invest unless specific conditions are met.

10. Prohibited Sectors for Investment

Sectors designated by the Minister under Article 11(a)(1) of this law as prohibited for investment by foreign investors are sectors in which foreign investors are absolutely prohibited from investing.

11. Determining Prohibited Sectors for Investment

(a) The Minister shall determine and publish in the Government Gazette the sectors in which foreign investors are prohibited from investing in the Maldives, including the following categories:

(1) Sectors in which foreign investors are absolutely prohibited from investing;

(2) Sectors in which foreign investors are prohibited from investing unless specific conditions are met.

(b) The Minister shall determine the sectors under subsection (a) of this Article with the consultation of the Cabinet of Ministers, taking into consideration the following:

(1) The extent of the potential risk to national security as a result of opening up a particular industry or sector for investment by foreign parties;

(2) The effect on the competitiveness of a particular industry or sector as a result of opening it up for investment by foreign parties;

(3) The level of development of Maldivian businesses in the industry or sector being opened for investment;

(4) The extent to which foreign investment is needed to develop the industry or sector being opened for investment;

(5) The extent to which the industry or sector being opened for investment will contribute to long-term productivity;

(6) The level of human resource development and the potential for job creation in the industry or sector being opened for investment.

(c) The first list of sectors determined under subsection (a) of this Article after the commencement of this law shall be determined by the Minister and published in the Government Gazette within 3 (three) months from the date this law comes into effect.

(d) The sectors determined by the Minister under subsection (a) of this Article shall be reviewed at least once every 3 (three) years, taking into consideration the matters stated in subsection (b) of this Article. If, following such a review, a change needs to be made to any such sector, the change to that sector shall be determined with the consultation of the Cabinet of Ministers and published in the Government Gazette before the change comes into effect.

(e) When the Minister determines the sectors where foreign investors are prohibited from investing in the Maldives unless specific conditions are met, under subsection (a)(2) of this Article, the main conditions that investors investing in those sectors must fulfill shall also be determined and published in the Government Gazette.

(f) Notwithstanding subsection (e) of this Article, this law does not prevent the establishment of additional matters and procedures required to fulfill the main conditions specified for foreign investors in relation to a specific sector, in the regulations made under this law.

(g) From the date the Minister determines and publishes in the Government Gazette the sectors in which foreign investors are absolutely prohibited from investing under subsection (a)(1) of this Article, no permit to invest in any of those sectors shall be granted to any foreign party. However, any foreign investment being carried out by a foreign party in any of those sectors with a permit obtained under this law or another law up until the time of such determination may be continued by that party until the end of the period specified in the permit granted to that party.

(h) From the date the Minister determines and publishes in the Government Gazette the sectors where foreign parties are prohibited from investing in the Maldives unless specific conditions are met under subsection (a)(2) of this Article, permits to invest in those sectors shall be issued only to foreign parties and investments that meet the conditions specified for that sector. However, any foreign investment being carried out by a foreign party in any of those sectors with a permit obtained under this law or another law up until the time of such determination may be continued by that party until the end of the period specified in the permit granted to that party.

CHAPTER THREE
Granting of Investment Permits

12. Stages of Granting an Investment Permit

The granting of a permit to parties wishing to establish a foreign investment in the Maldives shall consist of the following stages:

(a) Issuing a letter of no objection to investing in the Maldives to eligible parties;

(b) Fulfillment of obligations and procedures to be completed by the parties to whom the letter of no objection is issued;

(c) Issuing a Foreign Investment License to parties who fulfill the obligations and procedures;

(d) Signing an Investment Agreement with the parties to whom the license is issued.

13. Parties Eligible to Apply for Investment

An application for a permit to invest in the Maldives under this law may be submitted by one of the following parties:

(a) Nationals of a foreign country;

(b) A foreign company of the following types:

(1) A company with only foreign shareholders;

(2) A company with both Maldivian and foreign shareholders;

(3) A company established outside the Maldives that is one hundred percent owned, directly or indirectly, by Maldivians.

(c) The following types of businesses established in the Maldives:

(1) A partnership with foreign partners;

(2) A company with foreign shareholders;

(3) Companies re-registered in the Maldives under the Companies Act of the Maldives.

(d) Joint-venture arrangements formed by Maldivians and foreigners;

(e) Foreign associations;

(f) Separate legal personalities established under the law of another country.

14. Requirement to Obtain an Investment Permit if Shares of a Maldivian Company or Partnership are Transferred to a Foreign Party

(a) If it is desired to transfer a share of a company or partnership with Maldivian shareholders to a foreign party, an application for a Foreign Investment Permit must be submitted under Article 15 of this law before such a share transfer is made.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, a share of a company or partnership with Maldivian shareholders may be transferred to a foreign party only if the business sector in which the company or partnership wishes to engage is among the sectors specified in this law as being open for investment by foreign parties.

15. Applying for an Investment Permit and Matters to be Considered in Granting a Permit

(a) Parties wishing to establish a foreign investment in the Maldives shall apply to the Ministry for an investment permit in the manner prescribed in the regulation made under this law.

(b) When submitting an application to the Ministry under subsection (a) of this Article, the documents and information specified in the regulation made under this law must be submitted.

(c) An investment permit shall be granted to any party in relation to an application submitted to the Ministry under this Article only if the application meets the conditions specified in this law and the regulation made under this law, and if the proposal is not contrary to the national interest of the Maldives.

(d) In deciding whether to grant an investment permit to any party under subsection (c) of this Article, the Ministry shall examine the following:

(1) Whether the party wishing to invest has financial solvency or the ability to raise funds for the investment;

(2) That the foreign national wishing to invest, or any foreign national who controls a company, partnership, or any other legal entity, is not a person who cannot be granted a permit to enter or stay in the Maldives under the Maldives Immigration Act or other relevant law;

(3) If the sector in which the party wishes to invest is a sector for which specific conditions are stipulated under Article 11(a)(2) of this law, that the requirements of this law and the regulation made under this law are met in fulfilling those conditions;

(4) If the investment proposed by the party wishing to invest pertains to more than one sector as mentioned in Article 11(a)(2), that the requirements of this law and the regulation made under this law concerning all such sectors are met in relation to that investment.

(e) In deciding whether to grant an investment permit to any party under subsection (c) of this Article, at least the following matters shall be considered when assessing whether the investment proposed by the party is contrary to or promotes the national interest:

(1) The extent of the potential risk to national security as a result of the investment proposed by the party;

(2) The effect of the investment proposed by the party on the business competitiveness of a specific sector, the level of development of Maldivian businesses in that sector, and the extent to which foreign investment is needed to develop that sector;

(3) The extent to which job opportunities will be created in the Maldives and human resources will be developed as a result of the investment proposed by the party;

(4) The opportunities for exporting Maldivian products, goods, and services as a result of the investment proposed by the party;

(5) The foreseeable impact of the investment proposed by the party on the environment of the Maldives and the proposed measures to mitigate those impacts;

(6) The opportunity for the introduction or transfer of technology and information to the Maldives as a result of the investment proposed by the party.

(f) If an application submitted for an investment permit under this Article fulfills all the requirements specified in this law and the regulation made under this law, the Ministry shall decide on the application within 30 (thirty) days from the date the application is received by the Ministry.

(g) Notwithstanding subsection (f) of this Article, this Article does not prevent the Ministry from setting a shorter period than the one specified in that subsection in the regulation made under this law.

16. Issuing a Letter of No Objection to Investment

(a) If the Ministry, after considering the matters specified in Article 15, decides that a party who has applied for a permit to invest in the Maldives is eligible to be granted a permit to establish a foreign investment in the Maldives, the Ministry shall issue a letter to that party stating that the party is eligible to establish such an investment and that there is no objection to them investing in the Maldives, provided that they fulfill the additional matters and procedures specified in this law.

(b) The letter of no objection issued by the Ministry under subsection (a) of this Article must state the matters and procedures to be fulfilled by the recipient of the letter and the deadline for fulfilling them. The matters so determined shall include the requirement to register or re-register a company under Law No. 7/2023 (Companies Act) or to register under Law No. 13/2011 (Partnership Act) within the period specified in the letter.

17. Fulfilling Obligations and Procedures

(a) Upon receiving the Ministry's letter of no objection under Article 16(a) of this law, the party wishing to invest in the Maldives must fulfill the obligations and procedures specified in that letter within the period stipulated therein.

(b) If a party wishing to invest in the Maldives fails to act in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article within the period specified in the letter of no objection issued by the Ministry, the letter of no objection shall be deemed void upon the expiry of that period. A foreign investment can then be established in the Maldives by that party only after reapplying for an investment permit in accordance with Article 15 of this law and obtaining a new letter of no objection from the Ministry.

18. Issuing a Foreign Investment License

(a) After a party applying for an investment permit in the Maldives under Article 15 of this law receives a letter of no objection under Article 16, and upon that party fulfilling the matters specified in the letter as described in Article 17 of this law, the Ministry shall issue a Foreign Investment License to that party.

(b) The information of the parties to whom a Foreign Investment License is issued under this Article shall be maintained and registered by the Ministry in the manner prescribed in the regulation made under this law.

19. Information to be Included in a Foreign Investment License

(a) A Foreign Investment License issued by the Ministry under Article 18 of this law shall include the following information and matters:

(1) The name, nationality, service address, and legal status of the investor or investors to whom the license pertains;

(2) If the investor to whom the license pertains is a company or partnership, the full address of the registered office and the registration number;

(3) A summary of the economic activity to be undertaken in connection with the investment, and an estimate of the amount of money to be spent, or the investment amount;

(4) The matters, activities, and conditions permitted to be undertaken or conducted under the license;

(5) The date of issue of the license, the duration of the license, and the expiry date of the license;

(6) Additional information specified in the regulation made under this law.

(b) In addition to the matters specified in subsection (a) of this Article, a Foreign Investment License issued by the Ministry under Article 18 of this law shall state that the license is specific to the party to whom it is issued and is non-transferable, and that the rights granted to the licensee in relation to the permitted investment cannot be transferred to a third party, and that the licensee must fulfill all obligations and matters imposed upon them under the relevant laws of the Maldives.

(c) The conditions imposed by the Ministry when issuing a Foreign Investment License under Article 18 of this law must be within the scope determined in the letter of no objection issued by the Ministry under Article 16 of this law. The conditions that may be so imposed and the procedure for imposing such conditions shall be specified in the regulation made under this law.

20. Change in the Applicant for an Investment Permit or the Licensee

(a) If any party to whom the Ministry has issued a letter of no objection to invest in the Maldives under Article 16 of this law wishes to transfer it to another party before registering the business under Article 17 of this law, such a transfer can only be made after reapplying for an investment permit in accordance with Article 15 of this law and obtaining a new letter of no objection from the Ministry.

(b) The shares of a business registered under Article 17 of this law by a party who has obtained a Foreign Investment License under Article 18 of this law may be transferred to a party other than a Maldivian citizen or a company or partnership that is one hundred percent owned by Maldivians, only upon fulfillment of the conditions specified in the regulation made under this law for parties operating in that business sector.

21. Amending a License

(a) If any party to whom a Foreign Investment License has been issued under Article 18 of this law wishes to make a change to the business sector or business activity permitted under that license, they must apply to the Ministry to make such a change in the manner prescribed in the regulation made under this law.

(b) In amending a license in relation to an application submitted under subsection (a) of this Article, the procedures specified in this law for issuing a Foreign Investment License shall be followed.

(c) If, in connection with a change made to a license under this Article, there is a procedure that needs to be completed under another law, the investor shall be obliged to complete that procedure.

(d) A license may be amended under this Article only if the application fulfills the requirements specified in the regulation made under this law regarding the amendment of licenses.

22. Renewing a License

(a) If a foreign investor wishes to renew a license issued under Article 18 of this law, they must apply to the Ministry to renew the license at least 6 (six) months before the expiry of the license.

(b) If an investor applies to renew a license under subsection (a) of this Article, the license may be renewed if the following conditions are met in relation to the application:

(1) The party has not violated this law or the regulation made under this law;

(2) The party has not violated a condition stipulated in the issuance of the investment license;

(3) Additional conditions specified in the regulation made under this law for license renewal are fulfilled in relation to the application.

(c) If an application submitted to the Ministry under subsection (a) of this Article does not meet the conditions specified in subsection (b) of this Article, the Ministry has the discretion to act in one of the following ways regarding the application:

(1) Not to renew the license;

(2) To require the fulfillment of certain matters within a specific period, and not to renew the license until those matters are fulfilled;

(3) If the conditions in subsections (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this Article are met, to issue a temporary license for a period not exceeding 1 (one) year with conditions specified in the regulation made under this law;

(4) To take other measures specified in the regulation made under this law.

23. Suspension and Revocation of a License

(a) The Ministry has the discretion to suspend or revoke a license issued under Article 18 of this law in the following circumstances:

(1) If incorrect information was submitted to obtain the license;

(2) If the investor to whom the license was issued becomes bankrupt;

(3) If the composition of the business to which the investment license pertains changes to be solely owned by Maldivian citizens, contrary to the principle stated in Article 13 of this law;

(4) If the licensee has not carried out the work for which the license was issued for a period of at least 1 (one) year, or has carried out work other than that for which the license was issued;

(5) If a condition included in the license is no longer met;

(6) If the permit or license issued by the relevant authority for the operation of the business or business activity is revoked by that authority;

(7) If the license was issued to a re-registered foreign company, and that foreign company is dissolved.

(b) If the circumstance described in subsection (a)(1) or (a)(5) of this Article occurs, the license issued to that party shall be revoked by the Ministry.

(c) In addition to the circumstances specified in subsection (a), the circumstances under which a license may be suspended and the circumstances under which a license may be revoked shall be specified in the regulation made under this law.

(d) In a case where a license is revoked in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article, the Ministry shall inform the Registrar of Companies of this within 7 (seven) days.

24. Procedure for Suspending or Revoking a License

(a) Before suspending or revoking a license issued to an investor under Article 23 of this law, a written notice must be given to the investor, stating the intention to suspend or revoke the license and the reason for it.

(b) The notice given under subsection (a) of this Article must give the investor the opportunity to submit to the Ministry in writing, in the manner and within the period specified in the regulation made under this law, the reasons why the license issued to them should not be suspended or revoked.

(c) If the investor submits any representation by the end of the period given in accordance with subsection (b) of this Article, the Ministry shall make a decision on that representation. If no such representation is submitted, the Ministry shall inform the party in writing that the license issued to them has been suspended or revoked.

(d) If a license is revoked under subsection (c) of this Article due to the circumstance in Article 23(a)(1), in addition to revoking the license, that party shall be fined under Article 35(b) of this law.

(e) If a license is suspended or revoked in accordance with subsection (c) of this Article, the Ministry shall take other measures it deems necessary in connection with the matter.

(f) The procedures for suspending and revoking a license under this law shall be specified in the regulation made under this law.

25. Consequences of Suspension or Revocation of a License

(a) In the event that a license issued to an investor is suspended, until the license is reissued, it is prohibited for that party to do, or to represent that it is doing, anything other than the matters specified in the regulation made under this law.

(b) If the Ministry revokes a license issued to an investor, the investor shall do the following:

(1) Pay and settle all monies due to the state;

(2) Pay any money due in accordance with the law to persons who were employed in connection with the investment;

(3) Settle any debt owed to any party in connection with the investment;

(4) Apply for the dissolution of the business established and registered in the Maldives within 6 (six) months of the license revocation.

(c) If the Ministry revokes a license issued to an investor, the Ministry shall publicly announce it.

(d) In the event that the Ministry revokes a license issued to an investor, the profits of the investment may be taken out of the Maldives only after paying the monies due to the parties mentioned in subsection (b) of this Article.

(e) If, as a consequence of the revocation of a license issued to an investor under Article 23 of this law, the business registered under Article 17 of this law must be dissolved, and if that business is not dissolved within the period specified in subsection (b)(4) of this Article, all matters for the dissolution of that business may be carried out under the procedure for dissolving such a business under the relevant law.

26. Investment Agreement

(a) An Investment Agreement shall be signed between the Ministry and every foreign investor investing in the Maldives under a license obtained under Article 18 of this law.

(b) An Investment Agreement mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall include at least the following:

(1) Details of the business established in the Maldives for the purpose of the investment;

(2) The matters and activities permitted to be undertaken or conducted under the investment permit and the investment amount;

(3) The duration for which the agreement will be in effect;

(4) That the rights granted to the investor in relation to the permitted investment cannot be transferred to a third party, except as provided for in this law;

(5) The matters to be fulfilled under the relevant laws of the Maldives for conducting the transactions of the investor;

(6) The principles to be followed in relation to land transactions;

(7) The investor's responsibility regarding environmental protection in conducting business;

(8) The investor's responsibility to abide by the laws of the Maldives;

(9) The investor's responsibility for obtaining permits from government or state authorities in relation to the investment;

(10) The principles to be followed in employing people;

(11) The responsibility to pay taxes due under the laws of the Maldives, except in cases where a legal exemption from paying tax is granted;

(12) That the profits from the investment may be taken out of the Maldives in the manner specified in this law;

(13) The responsibility to pay fees and charges due to state authorities;

(14) The manner in which the agreement can be renewed;

(15) If the investment to which the agreement pertains is an investment for which an Environmental Impact Assessment is required under this law, the procedures related to conducting that assessment;

(16) If the investment is in a sector where investment is permitted with conditions, the conditions to be fulfilled by the investor in relation to that investment;

(17) The manner in which disputes between the two parties will be resolved;

(18) An anti-corruption clause stating that no party to the agreement has committed an act of corruption in return for, as an inducement for, for signing, or for obtaining the agreement, or for causing the agreement to be made as such;

(19) Additional matters specified in the regulation made under this law.

(c) After including the anti-corruption clause mentioned in subsection (b)(18) of this Article in the Investment Agreement, no other clause that would nullify or negate the effect of that clause shall be included in the agreement.

CHAPTER FOUR
Investor's Responsibilities and Protection and Security Afforded to Investors

27. Responsibility to Act in Accordance with the Law

Foreign investors investing in the Maldives, in addition to being obliged to comply with this law, the regulations and agreements made hereunder, and the conditions of the Foreign Investment License, shall have the responsibility to comply with the laws and regulations of the Maldives.

28. Fair and Equitable Treatment

Investments established in the Maldives under this law and the profits of such investments shall be accorded full protection and security. Such investments shall be treated in accordance with transparent policies.

29. Right to Repatriate Investment Profits Out of the Maldives

(a) A foreign investor has the right to repatriate the capital of an investment made in the Maldives and the profits generated from that capital back to the investor's country.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, in a period when the Maldives is facing a major economic downturn such as a balance of payments difficulty or a foreign exchange difficulty, the relevant state authorities have the discretion to set certain conditions to be fulfilled for repatriating the investment capital and/or its profits back to the country.

30. Exceptional Circumstances

(a) Although the protection and security specified in this chapter are afforded to investments established in the Maldives under this law, this law does not prevent a law made in relation to the following matters from restricting such an investment or a right related to that investment:

(1) To maintain the sovereign power of the Maldives;

(2) To maintain the defense, security, and safety of the territory of the Maldives;

(3) To protect the environment of the Maldives;

(4) To protect human rights;

(5) In the event of a natural disaster or a dangerous pandemic.

(b) The measures taken under this Article must be measures that are absolutely necessary to achieve the purposes stated in subsection (a) of this Article, without targeting a specific investor.

31. No Nationalization of Investment Except in Special Circumstances

(a) The state, or any authority under the control of the state, shall not take any action, whether through a law enacted after this law or through any executive procedure, for the purpose of nationalizing an investment established in the Maldives under this law or for the purpose of the state carrying out that business.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, an investment established in the Maldives may be nationalized by the state in the following circumstances and subject to the fulfillment of the following conditions:

(1) To achieve a specified and declared public benefit of the state or to maintain the security of the territory of the Maldives; and

(2) In accordance with the procedures specified in this law; and

(3) After providing adequate compensation for that investment.

(c) For the purpose of this law, the nationalization of a permitted investment refers to the direct taking of the investment by a state-authorized entity, or the loss of the investor's opportunity to benefit from the investment due to an action of a state-authorized entity.

(d) Notwithstanding subsections (b) and (c) of this Article, the following shall not be considered as nationalization of a permitted investment. And, as a result, the state shall not be obliged to provide adequate compensation for that investment.

(1) Levying a tax that is collected by the state without discriminating against a particular investor or a particular investment;

(2) Enacting a law or regulation without targeting a particular investor or a particular investment;

(3) A restriction on the operation of an investor's investment resulting from the enforcement of a law or regulation enacted without targeting a particular investor or a particular investment;

(4) Taking a measure permitted by law without targeting a particular investor or a particular investment, in order to protect consumers of goods and services, to prevent a criminal act, to prevent damage to the entire national economy, or to maintain the security of the territory of the Maldives;

(5) Revoking a license issued to an investor under Article 23 of this law.

32. Compensation for Investment

(a) In the event that an investment established in the Maldives under this law is nationalized by the state under Article 31(b) of this law, the investor shall be given adequate compensation.

(b) In calculating the amount of adequate compensation mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article, the fair market value of the investment as of the date of nationalization shall be considered.

(c) The procedure for determining and providing the adequate compensation mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be specified in the regulation made under this law.

CHAPTER FIVE
Taking Action and Filing Complaints

33. Unlawful Acts

It is prohibited for a party operating a foreign investment in the Maldives to do any of the following:

(a) To operate a business other than the one permitted under the Foreign Investment License issued under this law, or to operate the business under the Foreign Investment License issued under this law in a manner contrary to this law and the regulation formulated hereunder;

(b) To commit an act contrary to the conditions of the Foreign Investment License;

(c) To fail to rectify an act that is contrary to the Foreign Investment License within a period instructed by the Ministry, without a reasonable cause;

(d) To submit incorrect information when obtaining a Foreign Investment License.

34. Taking Action Against Investors Who Violate the Law

Except in cases where a specific procedure for taking action in relation to a specific matter is stipulated in this law, action shall be taken against a party who commits an act specified in Article 33 of this law in the following manner:

(a) A written notice shall be given to the investor, providing an opportunity to respond, stating the reason why the Ministry has noted that the investment is being carried out contrary to this law and the regulation formulated hereunder.

(b) The Ministry has the discretion to order in the notice mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article that a specific matter or matters be rectified within a specific period.

(c) Upon giving the notice mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article, if the matters specified in the notice are not rectified without a reasonable cause, or if no response is given to the notice in the manner instructed by the Ministry, that party may be fined and action may be taken against them under Article 35 of this law.

35. Fines

Unless otherwise stated in this law, parties who violate this law may be fined as follows:

(a) If any party commits an act specified in Article 33(a) of this law, they may be fined an amount not exceeding 30% (thirty percent) of the value of the entire business or investment operated without a permit.

(b) If any party commits an act specified in Article 33(d) of this law, they may be fined an amount between MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand) and MVR 1,000,000 (one million), depending on the gravity of the matter.

(c) If the act committed by the party is another act specified in Article 33 of this law, they may be fined an amount between MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand) and MVR 1,000,000 (one million), depending on the gravity of the matter. Alternatively, they may be fined 10% (ten percent) of the value of their entire business or investment.

36. Right to Submit a Case

(a) An investor may submit a complaint to the Ministry regarding a decision made by the Ministry under this law in relation to a foreign investment established in the Maldives, or regarding a decision made by a state authority in relation to such an investment.

(b) A Review Committee shall be established in the Ministry to examine the cases submitted under subsection (a) of this Article. The Review Committee so established shall not include any person who was involved in making the decision to which the complaint pertains.

(c) The procedure for reviewing complaints submitted to the Ministry under subsection (a) of this Article and for the Ministry to decide on the matter shall be specified in the regulation made under this law.

(d) If a solution is not found for the complaint submitted under subsection (a) of this Article through the decision made by the Ministry, the investor has the right to submit the case to the relevant court or the discretion to act in accordance with the principles and procedures established in the Investment Agreement for resolving disputes.
PART THREE

Implementation of International Treaties

CHAPTER SIX
International Treaties on Investment and Trade

37. Giving Precedence to Matters Contained in a Treaty Regarding Foreign Investments in the Maldives

(a) In a situation where the Maldives is a party to an international treaty on investment and trade, and if that treaty stipulates different principles concerning foreign investments made in the Maldives by foreign investors from a country or countries that are party to that treaty, the principles stipulated in that treaty shall be followed.

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this Article, the meaning of an international investment treaty includes bilateral investment treaties, multilateral investment treaties, and free trade agreements that include principles on investment.

38. Requirement for Maldivian Citizens to Comply with Treaties to which the Maldives is a Party

(a) If the Maldives becomes a party to a treaty such as the one mentioned in Article 37 of this law, that treaty shall be publicly published.

(b) If the international treaty mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article is a treaty under which Maldivian citizens have to bear any obligation, the relevant parts of that treaty shall be published in the Government Gazette with reference to this law.

(c) Upon the publication of an international investment treaty in the Government Gazette in accordance with subsection (b) of this Article, that treaty shall be considered a part of this law. And upon the commencement of that treaty, the principles contained in that treaty shall apply to Maldivian citizens to the relevant extent.

39. Treaties to which the Maldives is a Party at the Time of Commencement of this Law

(a) The principles stated in this chapter shall apply to international investment treaties to which the Maldives has become a party before the commencement of this law.

(b) The procedure specified in Article 38(a) of this law shall be completed within 6 (six) months from the date this law comes into effect, in relation to the international investment treaties mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article.
PART FOUR

General Part

CHAPTER SEVEN
Miscellaneous

40. Transitional Matters

(a) Upon the commencement of this law, foreign investments established and operating in the Maldives under a Foreign Investment License issued by the Ministry under Law No. 25/79 (Law on Foreign Investment in the Maldives) before the commencement of this law shall be considered as investments operated with a permit under this law.

(b) Foreign investments established and operating in the Maldives with a permit from the Ministry of Tourism under Law No. 25/79 (Law on Foreign Investment in the Maldives) before the commencement of this law must apply for registration under this law within 12 (twelve) months from the date this law comes into effect.

(c) Foreign businesses established in the Maldives before the commencement of this law, other than under a foreign investment permit, must apply for a foreign investment permit under Article 15 of this law within 12 (twelve) months from the date this law comes into effect.

(d) The procedures for handling applications submitted under subsections (b) and (c) of this Article shall be specified in the regulation made under this law.

(e) Applications submitted to the Ministry under subsection (b) of this Article shall be reviewed and decided upon, and the permit under this law shall be issued to that party, within a maximum of 6 (six) months from the date the application is received.

(f) The Ministry shall decide on an application submitted to the Ministry under subsection (c) of this Article within a maximum of 12 (twelve) months from the date the application is received.

(g) If a party mentioned in subsection (c) of this Article fails to apply for a permit under this law within the period specified in that subsection, their business permit shall be revoked.

41. Precedence of this Law

If a principle stated in another law regarding foreign investment, with the exception of Law No. 24/2014 (Special Economic Zone Act), conflicts with this law, precedence shall be given to this law upon its commencement.

42. Making and Implementing Regulations

(a) All regulations that need to be made under this law shall be made and implemented by the Ministry.

(b) The regulations that need to be made under this law shall be made and published in the Government Gazette within 3 (three) months from the date this law comes into effect.

43. Repealed Law

Upon the commencement of this law, Law No. 25/79 (Law on Foreign Investment in the Maldives) is repealed.

44. Commencement of the Law

This law shall come into effect on the date that is 3 (three) months after the date of its passage, certification, and publication in the Government Gazette.

45. Definitions

Unless the context in which a word or phrase is used in this law clearly indicates otherwise, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given below:

(a) "Foreign company" refers to companies established outside the Maldives.

(b) "Investor" or "foreign investor" refers to any party from among the parties mentioned in Article 13 of this law who is granted a license to establish a foreign investment in the Maldives under Article 18 of this law.

(c) "Minister" refers to the Minister of the government ministry to which the responsibility for implementing policies related to foreign investment is assigned at the time.

(d) "Ministry" refers to the government ministry to which the responsibility for implementing policies related to foreign investment is assigned at the time.

(e) "Foreign Investment" refers to the bringing of capital, employees, or technology to the Maldives by a foreign investor on a continuous basis, in accordance with a license issued under Article 18 of this law, not for the purpose of carrying out a specific project or a specific task.

(f) "Ministry of Tourism" refers to the government ministry to which the responsibility for implementing policies related to tourism is assigned at the time.
