Gender Equality Act (Act No. 18/2016)

This is an unofficial translation of the Dhivehi text.

Chapter One
General Provisions

1. Introduction and Name

(a) This is the law that states the main principles to be followed in establishing gender equality in the Maldives, policies regarding the prohibition of discrimination based on gender, and the responsibilities and duties of state institutions and other parties in establishing gender equality.

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Gender Equality Act".

2. Purpose

The purpose of this Act is to achieve the following:

(a) While Article 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives states that no one shall be discriminated against based on their sex or any other matter in the enjoyment of fundamental rights and freedoms, and while Article 20 of the Constitution states that every person has the right to the equal protection and benefit of the law, to ensure that every person fully enjoys the fundamental rights and freedoms granted by the Constitution and laws, without discrimination based on sex or gender.[1]

(b) With reference to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women and its Optional Protocol, to facilitate all possible measures to stop discrimination based on sex, and to pave the way for taking all possible measures to stop thoughts, ideas, and principles that empower discrimination between men and women.[1]

(c) With reference to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women and its Optional Protocol, to ensure that women have human rights, fundamental rights, and opportunities on an equal basis with men in the economic, social, cultural, civil, and political spheres of the Maldives.[1]

(d) To protect human dignity and honor.[1]

(e) To determine the principles to be followed by state institutions, businesses, associations and organizations, employers, other legal persons, and the general public in order to establish gender equality.[1]

(f) To determine the principles to be followed in formulating policies to establish gender equality socially, economically, politically, and culturally.[1]

(g) To take measures to stop violence against women.[1]

(h) To take special measures to establish gender equality.[1]

(i) To establish an environment that empowers women and men, provides equal opportunities for both sexes, and paves the way for achieving results in an equal manner.[1]

3. Special Principle of Interpretation of the Law

(a) This Act shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with the Constitution and the principles of Islam.[1]

(b) In interpreting and applying the matters stated in this Act, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women and its Optional Protocol, other treaties and agreements to which the Maldives is a party, and the principles accepted by open democratic societies founded on human dignity, equality, and freedom shall be upheld.

(c) In applying paragraph (b) of this Article, if the Maldives has made any reservations or exceptions to the treaties and agreements to which it is a party, those matters shall be taken into consideration.

Chapter Two
Principles of Equality and Non-Discrimination

4. Gender Equality

For the purpose of this Act, "gender equality" or "equality of the sexes" refers to equality of opportunity for women and men, equality in accessing opportunities, equality in achieving results from opportunities, and substantive equality in which the full benefit of rights and freedoms can be enjoyed.[1]

5. Protected Characteristic

(a) While Article 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives states that no one shall be discriminated against based on their sex or any other matter in the enjoyment of fundamental rights and freedoms, "gender" is a protected characteristic in the manner stated in this Act.[1]

(b) The result of the protection afforded under paragraph (a) of this Article is that if a person is discriminated against based on their sex or gender in one of the ways stated in this Act, that person shall receive the rights and protections afforded under this Act.[1]

6. Parties to Whom This Chapter Applies

The matters stated from Article 7 to Article 12 of this Act shall apply to state institutions, businesses, associations and organizations, employers, other legal persons, and the general public.

7. Discrimination Based on Gender

(a) It is prohibited under this Act to discriminate against any person, whether directly or indirectly, based on gender.

(b) In this Article, "discrimination based on gender" refers to any discrimination, the purpose or result of which is the impairment or nullification of the right to the equal enjoyment of fundamental rights and freedoms by women and men, based on the sex or gender to which a person belongs, for the purpose of excluding, prohibiting, or differentiating in a particular matter.

8. Systemic Discrimination Arising from an Unequal System

(a) Systemic discrimination arising from an unequal system that has been formed in a way that denies opportunities to a particular sex as a result of reserving certain types of work for a particular sex shall be considered discrimination based on gender.

(b) "Unequal system" in paragraph (a) of this Article refers to systems designed to maintain matters that people wrongly believe about the role of a particular sex in society, based on social reasons, by creating them as laws, policies, customs, and culture.

9. Discrimination Based on Specific Matters

(a) It is prohibited under this Act to discriminate, whether directly or indirectly, against a woman based on any of the following:
(1) Pregnancy or the possibility of becoming pregnant;
(2) Childbirth or the possibility of giving birth;
(3) Breastfeeding or the possibility of breastfeeding.

(b) It is prohibited under this Act to discriminate, whether directly or indirectly, against any person based on any of the following:
(1) Sex;
(2) Marital status;
(3) Family responsibilities;
(4) Characteristics generally attributed to a particular sex, or characteristics not generally attributed to that sex;
(5) A role believed to be performed by a person because they are of a particular sex, or a role believed not to be performed by a person because they are of a particular sex;
(6) Practices that are applied in a way that nullifies the equality between women and men;
(7) Practices that are applied in a way that harms the dignity of a particular sex;
(8) Social or cultural beliefs that one sex is superior or inferior to another.

(c) "Discrimination" in this Article refers to the occurrence, whether directly or indirectly, of any of the following due to an act done or an omission by a person, including laws, regulations, policies, practices, and situations:
(1) A person having to bear a burden or obligation or facing a difficulty; or
(2) The withholding of a benefit, advantage, convenience, or opportunity that a person could have obtained, based on a matter stated in this Article.

10. Direct Discrimination

For the purpose of this Act, direct discrimination is to do any of the following:

(a) A regulation, a principle followed by an institution, or any other such matter stating a clear and visible discrimination between women and men in obtaining rights and fulfilling responsibilities; or

(b) Acting or attempting to act in a less favorable manner towards a person because they possess a characteristic protected under this Act or because of a personal characteristic they possess.

11. Indirect Discrimination

(a) For the purpose of this Act, indirect discrimination is the occurrence of any of the following:
(1) A particular regulation, policy, or practice, although appearing to be a matter that establishes equality, is a matter that causes unequal outcomes for a particular gender because sufficient attention was not paid to eliminating pre-existing injustices before the formulation of that regulation, policy, or practice; or
(2) A condition specified for doing or achieving a particular thing, or a characteristic stated as required, or a manner of acting in doing such a thing, is or results in a matter that causes an unreasonable disadvantage or difficulty for a person in a situation protected under this Act.

(b) In determining whether a condition, characteristic, or manner of acting as stated in paragraph (a)(2) of this Article is reasonable or not, the court shall consider the circumstances of the matter, including the following:
(1) The consequences for a person who cannot fulfill such a condition or characteristic, or who cannot act in accordance with the manner of acting;
(2) The harm in acting in another way instead of such a condition, characteristic, or manner of acting;
(3) The financial situation of the person enforcing or proposing to enforce such a condition, characteristic, or manner of acting.

(c) If the matters stated in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this Article are matters determined to the extent necessary to achieve a legally permissible purpose, they shall not be considered indirect discrimination.

(d) In a case submitted regarding a matter stated in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this Article, if the person submitting the case proves, based on the weight of the available evidence, that the case is one that has a right of action from the very beginning, the responsibility of proving that the matter to which the case is directed is a matter free of indirect discrimination or that it is a matter determined to the extent necessary to achieve a legally permissible purpose shall lie with the party against whom such a case is directed.

12. Matters Not to be Considered in Determining Whether Direct or Indirect Discrimination Exists

In determining whether a particular person engages in direct or indirect discrimination, the following matters shall not be considered:

(a) The belief that their action will cause less favorable outcomes for a particular sex;
(b) Their knowledge that their action is discriminatory;
(c) In a situation where discrimination based on gender is the substantive reason on which their action is based, that discrimination based on gender is the only or main reason for it;
(d) The motive of the person who discriminated;
(e) Whether the person who discriminated did so alone or with the participation of many; or
(f) Whether the discrimination occurred through an act or an omission.

13. Not Considered as Discrimination

For the purpose of achieving a purpose stated in Article 2 of this Act, with reference to Article 17(b) of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives, actions taken to assist or provide protection to a particular sex shall not be considered discrimination as stated in this Act.[1]

Chapter Three
Violence Against Women

14. Violence Against Women

(a) For the purpose of this Act, violence against women shall be considered discrimination based on gender.[1]

(b) "Violence against women" in paragraph (a) of this Article refers to committing any of the following acts against a person because she is a woman:
(1) Committing an act of domestic violence as stated in Law No. 3/2012 (Domestic Violence Prevention Act);[1]
(2) Committing an act of rape or sexual assault as stated in Law No. 17/2014 (Sexual Offences Act) or threatening to commit such an act;
(3) Committing an act that causes physical, sexual, or psychological harm;
(4) Threatening to commit an act as stated in sub-paragraph (3) of this paragraph;
(5) Confining a person in a place against their will;
(6) Denying the opportunity to live a dignified life socially and economically;
(7) Denying the opportunity to live a life by earning one's own income;
(8) Committing an act or acts of sexual harassment and abuse as stated in Law No. 16/2014 (Prevention of Sexual Harassment and Abuse Act);
(9) Human trafficking of women and girls and their exploitation; or
(10) Committing an act against a woman that is prohibited by another law.

(c) The fact that an act stated in paragraph (b) of this Article as an act of violence against women receives punishment under another law for such an act is not a bar to suing for damages under this Act.

15. Taking Action on an Act of Violence Against Women

If an act stated in Article 14 of this Act as an act of violence against women is an act for which action can be taken under another law, action shall be taken under that law, and the principles of that law shall apply. In cases where civil liability arises, civil liability shall be borne, and if the act is a criminal offense, a criminal charge can be brought.

Chapter Four
Women Living in Administrative Divisions

16. Responsibility of State Institutions

State institutions shall take adequate measures to recognize the problems faced by women living in administrative divisions, including their unpaid work that benefits the economy, and their role in the safety and well-being of the family, and to ensure that they receive the true benefits of this Act.

17. Rights to be Ensured for Women Living in Administrative Divisions

It is the responsibility of state institutions, businesses, associations and organizations, employers, other legal persons, and private individuals to eliminate discrimination against women living in administrative divisions, establish gender equality, involve women in the work done to develop those divisions, and ensure that women receive the benefits of development, and especially the following rights:

(a) Their practical participation in the various stages of designing, detailing, and implementing various development plans;

(b) Access to services of a truly beneficial amount and standard, health-related information, counseling, and family planning services without discrimination;

(c) Direct benefit from various social assistance programs in the same way as other parties;[1]

(d) Access to various types of formal and informal education and training;[1]

(e) Paving the way for men and women to find economic opportunities on an equal basis to hold a job or earn an income through self-employment, through self-help groups and cooperative societies;

(f) The opportunity to participate in all activities of the community;

(g) Open opportunity for women and men to have access to financial facilities, marketing resources, appropriate technology, and property ownership without discrimination and on an equal basis; and

(h) Paving the way for enjoying the benefits of an adequate standard of living, including housing, sewerage, electricity and water services, transport, and communications.

Chapter Five
Responsibilities of Various Institutions and Parties

18. Responsibilities of State Institutions and Businesses

(a) A state institution or a business, in fulfilling its responsibilities, shall take adequate measures to achieve the following:
(1) Eliminating discrimination based on gender, including the elimination of direct and indirect discrimination as stated in this Act;[1]
(2) Eliminating systemic discrimination arising from an unequal system;[1]
(3) Promoting equality of opportunity between women and men;[1]
(4) Promoting the idea and thought of establishing gender equality between women and men in order to eliminate undesirable prejudices held in society regarding a particular gender.[1]

(b) The promotion of equality of opportunity as stated in paragraph (a)(3) of this Article includes the following:
(1) Eliminating a disadvantage or difficulty faced by a particular sex due to the lack of equality of opportunity between women and men;[1]
(2) Reducing the impact of an undesirable outcome arising from the lack of equality of opportunity between women and men;[1]
(3) If the needs of a particular sex are different in accessing services and facilities, taking adequate measures to meet such needs; or
(4) If the participation of a particular sex is low in public service and public life, looking at the ratio of participation of women and men, increasing the participation of the sex whose participation is seen to be low.

(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in paragraph (a) of this Article, the matters stated in paragraph (a) of this Article shall apply to every party that performs a public-related responsibility.

(d) For the purpose of this Act, the fact that a more favorable situation arises for a particular sex as a result of a state institution or a business fulfilling a responsibility stated in this Article shall not be considered as authorizing a discrimination prohibited under this Act.

19. Non-discrimination Based on Sex in Providing Services and Fulfilling Public-Related Responsibilities

(a) In providing a service to the public or a section of the public, it is the responsibility of the service provider to ensure the following:
(1) Eliminating discrimination that arises from not providing a service to a person because they are of a particular sex;
(2) Not ceasing to provide a service because the person receiving the service is of a particular sex;
(3) Not doing anything that would cause difficulty or disadvantage to a person based on their sex in providing a service;
(4) Not harassing or abusing, sexually or in any other way, a person who wishes to receive the service of the service provider or a person to whom the service provider is providing a service, in the course of providing the service.

(b) If a service is provided to the public or a section of the public in the course of fulfilling a public-related responsibility, the matters stated in paragraph (a) of this Article shall apply to the person or party fulfilling such a responsibility.

(c) "Providing a service" in this Article refers to providing goods and services.

(d) For the purpose of this Article, an employer providing a service to its employees through another party does not mean that the employer is included within the meaning of a service provider as stated in this Article. However, in that case, the employees of the employer shall be defined as a section of the public as stated in this Article.

(e) "A person who wishes to receive a service" in this Article refers to a person who wants to use or obtain a service.

(f) "Not providing a service to a person" in paragraph (a)(1) of this Article refers to the following:
(1) The service provider not providing a service at the standard at which it is generally provided to the public or a section of the public, or providing it at a lower standard;
(2) The service provider providing a service in a manner other than the way it is generally provided to the public or a section of the public;
(3) The service provider providing a service based on conditions different from the conditions under which it is generally provided to the public or a section of the public.

20. Responsibilities of Employers in the Public and Private Sectors

It is the responsibility of employers in the public and private sectors, under this Act, to do the following:

(a) To provide equal opportunities to women and men in employment, in the training given while in employment, and in giving promotions.

(b) To give equal pay to women and men who do the same work in the same place.

(c) In employment in the same place, if the work done by a woman and a man is, considering the value of the work and the work done, reasonably similar work, to act on an equal basis between the two parties in giving salary, overtime pay, benefits, and allowances.

(d) Except for work that necessarily requires a person of a particular sex, not to open the opportunity for such a job exclusively for a particular sex when advertising and announcing the job.

(e) When opening job opportunities in fields to which fewer women than men apply, to write job announcements and advertisements in a way that invites women to apply for the job as well.

(f) To take all possible measures to eliminate the barriers for women to enter the workforce and to establish a favorable working environment for women; and

(g) For the purpose of Article 29 of this Act, to establish a system for submitting complaints.

21. Responsibilities of Media Service Providers and Persons Working in the Media

(a) Media service providers and persons working in the media shall promote the principle of maintaining equality between women and men.

(b) For the purpose of paragraph (a) of this Article, it is the responsibility of media service providers and persons working in the media to represent women and men without assigning them a specific role in society, with the understanding that everyone is equal and has equal rights and opportunities, and even though there are natural differences between women and men.

22. Responsibilities of Educational Service Providers and Institutions

It is the responsibility of educational service providers and institutions, under this Act, to do the following:

(a) To promote in the educational curriculum the principle of maintaining equality between women and men, and the idea that everyone is equal and has equal rights and opportunities.

(b) Even though there are natural differences between women and men, to represent women and men in the educational curriculum and in teaching without assigning them a specific role in society.

(c) To provide equal opportunities for women and men in obtaining education, benefiting from it, training, learning, acquiring skills, knowing information, benefiting from science and technology, innovating, and creating new ways.

(d) To provide health education for adolescents on an equal basis for girls and boys.

(e) To establish gender equality in extracurricular activities among students, open equal opportunities for women and men, and encourage them to use the opportunity and benefit from it.

(f) To provide information and training on establishing gender equality to teachers and all parties involved in school management within teacher training programs and teacher professional development. and

(g) To promote equality between women and men and increase the participation of women in places that conduct programs that teach education or skills.

23. Responsibilities of Financial Service Providers

(a) It is the responsibility of financial service providers to provide equal opportunities for women and men to access financial resources and services.

(b) For the purpose of paragraph (a) of this Article, in appropriate circumstances, financial service providers and financial institutions shall formulate relevant policies to pave the way for women to receive financial facilities on an equal basis with men.

24. Responsibility to Establish Gender Equality in the Political Sphere

(a) It is the responsibility of the state and political parties to work towards paving the way for women to have equal opportunities with men at all levels of the political sphere.

(b) It is the responsibility of the Ministry under this Act to work towards providing assistance and training to women in order to increase their participation and initiative on an equal basis with men at all levels of the political sphere.

(c) It is the responsibility of the government in power at the time, under this Act, to work towards providing opportunities for women on an equal basis with men in appointing people to positions, in working at all levels of government, in representing the government at the international level, and in participating in the work of international organizations.

(d) It is the responsibility of political parties, under this Act, to work towards providing opportunities for women on an equal basis with men in contesting for elected positions and in nominating candidates for such positions.

25. Economic Empowerment

(a) Women shall have opportunities on an equal basis with men in accessing and using resources in the economic sphere.

(b) In the economic sphere, even if there is apparent equality of opportunity between women and men, it is the responsibility of the government and relevant state institutions to identify the barriers to women's economic empowerment due to the specific role given to men socially, and to formulate and implement policies to eliminate those barriers.

26. Giving Priority to Establishing Gender Equality in Formulating Housing Policies and Programs

(a) In formulating housing policies and projects by the government, and in formulating the built environment plans of islands, priority shall be given to establishing gender equality as stated in Article 4 of this Act.

(b) For the purpose of paragraph (a) of this Article, women and men shall have an equal and real opportunity to benefit from a government housing policy or project.

27. Responsibilities of Health Service Providers

(a) It is the responsibility of health service providers to provide adequate good service and health-related information to women and men on an equal basis.

(b) It is the responsibility of health service providers to establish a system in health service facilities where information on reproductive health, information that helps to ensure the health and well-being of the family, and information on family planning are equally available to women and men.

Chapter Six
Prohibition of Victimization in Connection with a Complaint

28. Prohibition of Victimization in Connection with a Complaint

(a) It is prohibited under this Act to victimize a complainant in connection with the submission of a complaint against a person or party that has practiced a discrimination prohibited under this Act.

(b) "Victimization in connection with a complaint" in paragraph (a) of this Article refers to causing harm to a person or threatening to cause harm because the person has done, is suspected of doing, or might do any of the following:
(1) Submitting a complaint or suing any party or person under this Act;
(2) Reporting a case of a person or party who has committed an act of discrimination under this Act; or
(3) Providing any evidence, information, or document in connection with any proceedings under this Act.

(c) A person who has been victimized in connection with a complaint has the right to sue the party that committed such an act of victimization in the manner stated in Article 31 of this Act.

Chapter Seven
Suing and Seeking Compensation

29. Suing Employers

(a) If an employer contravenes any of the following, a person who has suffered a loss as a result of the contravention or a person who has been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this Act has the right to sue the employer in the manner provided in this Article:
(1) Chapter Two of this Act; or
(2) The responsibilities of employers stated in Article 20 of this Act.

(b) If an employer contravenes a matter stated in paragraph (a) of this Article, the person to whom the matter is directed has the right to submit a case under a complaint submission system established under Article 20(k) of this Act in the workplace.

(c) Within 30 (thirty) days of the employer receiving a complaint as stated in paragraph (b) of this Article, the employer shall investigate the matter in connection with the complaint and inform the person who submitted the complaint in writing of the decision made regarding the case.

(d) If the person who submitted the complaint does not accept the decision made by the employer, the person who submitted the complaint has the right to submit the case to the Tribunal within 90 (ninety) days from the date the employer made the decision.

(e) If the case is not investigated and decided within 30 (thirty) days of submitting the complaint to the employer as provided in this Act, the person who submitted the complaint has the discretion to submit the case to the Tribunal.

30. Taking Action Against Parties That Do Not Establish a Complaint Submission System

(a) The places required by Article 20 of this Act to establish the complaint submission system in Article 20(k) of this Act shall establish it within 3 (three) months from the date this Act comes into force and submit the information to the Ministry.

(b) If the complaint submission system in Article 20(k) of this Act is not established in the places required by Article 20 of this Act within the period stated in paragraph (a) of this Article, any person has the right to submit a complaint about it to the Minister.

(c) If the complaint submission system in Article 20(k) of this Act is not established in the places required by Article 20 of this Act within the period stated in paragraph (a) of this Article, the Minister has the power to take one of the following measures against such parties:
(1) Publicizing the information of such parties;
(2) If such a party is a public sector employer, fining the party responsible for the duty and responsibility of establishing the complaint submission system in Article 20(k) of this Act an amount not exceeding MVR 25,000 (twenty-five thousand);
(3) If such a party is a private sector employer, fining that party an amount not exceeding MVR 25,000 (twenty-five thousand).

31. Suing Parties That Contravene This Act

A person who has suffered a loss as a result of a contravention by a party of a matter stated in Chapter Two, Chapter Three, Chapter Four, and Chapter Five of this Act, or a person who has been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this Act has the right to sue for one of the matters stated in Article 32 of this Act.

32. Matters That Can Be Requested in a Lawsuit

In suing under this chapter, in submitting cases that must be submitted to the Tribunal to the Tribunal or in submitting cases that must be submitted to the court to the court, the plaintiff may request one of the following:

(a) To seek compensation;
(b) To have the act of the party that practiced a discrimination prohibited in this Act reviewed.

33. Awarding Compensation

(a) In awarding compensation in a lawsuit under this chapter, based on the matters involved in the case, in connection with a loss suffered as a result of a contravention of this Act or as a result of practicing a discrimination prohibited in this Act, the type and amount of compensation to be awarded to the person who suffers such a loss shall be determined by the Tribunal or the court, in accordance with a procedure determined by the Tribunal or the court with reference to this Article.

(b) In order to maintain justice and fairness in the case, in awarding compensation in a lawsuit under this chapter, the Tribunal or the court may decide in one of the following ways:
(1) Awarding compensation for all matters for which compensation was requested;
(2) Awarding compensation for some of the matters for which compensation was requested, as determined by the Tribunal or the court;
(3) If the case involves a situation similar to a previous case in which compensation was awarded, awarding compensation similar to the compensation awarded in the previous situation.

34. Reviewing the Act of the Party That Practiced Discrimination

In a lawsuit under this chapter, in reviewing and deciding on the act of a party that practiced a discrimination prohibited in this Act, the Tribunal or the court shall make a decision on the following matters:

(a) Whether a discrimination prohibited in this Act has been practiced or not;
(b) If it is determined that a discrimination prohibited in this Act has been practiced, the reasons on which it is based;
(c) If it is determined that a discrimination prohibited in this Act has not been practiced, the reasons on which it is based;
(d) If it is determined that a discrimination prohibited in this Act has been practiced, the measures to be taken to rectify it;
(e) If it is determined that a discrimination prohibited in this Act has been practiced, fining the party that practiced such discrimination an amount between MVR 12,000 (twelve thousand) and MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand).

35. Appeal

Every decision made by the Tribunal or the court under this Act is a decision that can be appealed in accordance with Article 56 of the Constitution.

36. Protection Given to Witnesses

No person shall be held liable in a civil or criminal court in connection with evidence given in court, whether in writing or orally, as long as a charge of giving false evidence or fabricating incorrect evidence is not brought against them in connection with that evidence.

Chapter Eight
Taking Special Measures to Establish Gender Equality

37. Taking Special Measures to Establish Gender Equality

In order to establish gender equality, in any of the following situations, this Act does not prevent the implementation of a special measure or measures stated in Article 38 of this Act temporarily or for a long period:

(a) A difficulty or a less favorable situation is faced by persons of a particular sex;
(b) The needs or requirements of persons of a particular sex are different in accessing services and facilities; or
(c) The participation of persons of a particular sex is low in public service and public life, looking at the ratio of participation of women and men.

38. Special Measures

The following are special measures that can be taken under Article 37 of this Act:

(a) Passing a law, or conducting a program or activity to achieve one of the following purposes:
(1) Establishing a suitable environment for women to achieve equality of results;
(2) In order to solve the low level of representation of women at various levels of the political sphere, to review the distribution of power and resources between women and men, or to take relevant measures to accelerate the establishment of substantive equality; or
(3) Taking measures to improve the situation of people who are disadvantaged due to more than one reason, people who have been discriminated against based on gender, and disadvantaged individuals.

(b) For the purpose of this Act, to give special protection to persons of a particular sex based on one of the matters stated in Article 9(a) of this Act in order to establish substantive equality;

(c) To give special protection to women to protect them from an act of violence against women as stated in Article 14(b) of this Act.

Chapter Nine
Implementation of the Law

39. Party with Primary Responsibility

(a) The Minister shall bear the primary responsibility for the implementation and enforcement of the matters stated in this Act regarding the establishment of gender equality, except for the responsibilities assigned to the Court and the Tribunal, and the responsibilities assigned to specific institutions and parties.

(b) The Minister has all the powers directly required to implement the matters stated in this Act regarding the establishment of gender equality, and all the powers that facilitate the full implementation of those matters, under this Act, except for the responsibilities assigned to the Court and the Tribunal, and the responsibilities assigned to specific institutions and parties.

40. Some Decentralized Principles

(a) The Minister may, under this Act, designate each of the City Councils, Atoll Councils, and Island Councils as the agent appointed for that area to implement this Act in the areas under their jurisdiction, in order to facilitate and legally empower them to bear the responsibility of implementing this Act.

(b) Any power or responsibility, or a responsibility to implement this Act, shall be assigned by the Minister to a City Council, an Atoll Council, or an Island Council under paragraph (a) of this Article, along with providing the council with the resources needed to implement that responsibility and power, and in accordance with the gender equality policy and action plan formulated under Article 42 of this Act.

(c) The Minister's guidance and authority under this Act shall extend to the parties that bear the responsibility of establishing gender equality at the level of City Councils, Atoll Councils, and Island Councils, the parties that work to increase public awareness to stop acts of violence against women, and the parties that work to save people from acts of violence against women.

(d) If specific responsibilities are assigned under this Act at the level of a City Council, an Atoll Council, or an Island Council, it shall be done in writing in a way that clearly shows those powers or responsibilities.

(e) The responsibilities assigned to City Councils, Atoll Councils, and Island Councils under this Act shall be detailed in a regulation made under this Act, publicly announced, and published in the Gazette. The Minister shall bear the responsibility of doing so.

41. Role of the Ministry

The department designated for this purpose in the Ministry shall work at the forefront at the national level, with the advice and guidance of the Minister, to stop acts of violence against women, to raise public awareness about it, to establish gender equality, to increase public awareness about it, to arrange ways to work in coordination with relevant parties such as the institutions and parties on which responsibilities are placed in this Act, and to coordinate the work done by various parties in the Maldives to establish gender equality and bring that work under a national policy and implement it.

42. Responsibilities of the Ministry

The responsibilities of the Ministry under this Act are stated below:

(a) To formulate and implement a national policy on how to establish gender equality at the national level and a national action plan within 6 (six) months from the date this Act comes into force;

(b) After starting to implement the policy and action plan stated in paragraph (a) of this Article, to review and study the policy and action plan once every two years, with the consultation of private individuals, experts, and civil societies active in this field;

(c) To conduct various activities to establish gender equality, and to design and implement various measures needed to eliminate the barriers for women to establish gender equality, in accordance with this Act;

(d) To submit relevant bills to the People's Majlis to make necessary amendments to the existing laws and policies to strengthen the establishment of gender equality and to eliminate discrimination based on gender, or in a way that facilitates doing so;

(e) To conduct various programs to provide the information needed to raise public awareness or to train specific groups;

(f) To collect and compile statistics in a way that shows the two sexes separately to identify discrimination based on gender and to eliminate it;

(g) To conduct the necessary studies to identify the prevalence of violence against women, the reasons that lead to such violence, and its effects, to obtain the necessary statistics, and to publish the things that need to be published among them;

(h) To establish a system for reporting the actions of parties that contravene this Act to the Ministry;

(i) The minimum standards that must be in a complaint submission system established by employers under Article 20(k) of this Act; and

(j) To provide advice and information to law and regulation-making bodies and policy-making bodies on matters of establishing gender equality.

43. Determining Matters to be Reported

What matters are to be reported regarding the establishment of gender equality or the prevention of violence against women, and who are the persons who must report them, shall be stated in a regulation made under this Act.

Chapter Ten
General Provisions

44. Including Funds in the Budget to Implement This Act

When the People's Majlis passes the state budget for the following year each year, an adequate amount of money shall be allocated and released to the Ministry through that budget, to establish gender equality, to stop violence against women, and to assist the victims of that violence.

45. Reviewing the Law

(a) This Act is a law that the Minister must review once every 5 (five) years from the date it comes into force.

(b) After reviewing this Act in the manner stated in paragraph (a) of this Article, if there is an amendment that needs to be made to this Act, it is the responsibility of the government to submit a relevant bill to the People's Majlis to make that amendment.

46. Commencement of the Act

This Act shall come into force 6 (six) months from the date it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

47. Making and Implementing Regulations

(a) Among the regulations that need to be made under this Act, except for a regulation that must be made and implemented by a relevant court or tribunal, other regulations shall be made by the Ministry.

(b) The regulations that must be made and implemented by a relevant court or tribunal under this Act shall be made and implemented by that court or tribunal.

(c) The regulations that need to be made and implemented under this Article shall be made and publicly announced within 6 (six) months from the date this Act comes into force.

(d) No regulation made under this Article shall be a regulation that contradicts the purposes of this Act, or that nullifies such a purpose, or that hinders the implementation of those purposes.

48. Definitions

Unless otherwise stated in this Act, the following terms and phrases shall have the meanings given below in relation to those terms and phrases:

(a) "Court" means, in Malé, the Civil Court referred to in Article 53(b)(1) of Law No. 22/2010 (Judicature Act of the Maldives), or in any other island of the Maldives, the Magistrate Courts referred to in Chapter Four of that Act, in accordance with the jurisdiction vested in that court.

(b) "Tribunal" means the Employment Tribunal established under Chapter 10 of Law No. 2/2008 (Employment Act).

(c) "Public-related responsibility" means a responsibility of a nature that includes public interest.

(d) "Women" means women and girls, without regard to their age.

(e) "Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women" means the "Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women".

(f) "Minister" means the minister who bears the responsibility for the work done at the national level to establish gender equality.

(g) "Ministry" means the government ministry that bears the responsibility for the work done at the national level to establish gender equality.

(h) "Media" means television, radio, interactive CDs, websites, daily newspapers, weekly newspapers, magazines, trade publications, and other publications published in the Maldives, whether registered or not, to disseminate information, news, opinions, and advertisements to the public for sale or free of charge, through print, the internet, and other means.

(i) "Men" means men and boys, without regard to their age.

(j) "State institution" means the executive, the People's Majlis, the judiciary, independent institutions, independent posts, security services, and councils elected under the Constitution. It also includes every place that performs a state responsibility in its operation, every place run by the state budget, and every place run with assistance from the state budget.

(k) "State-owned enterprises" means the places stated as state-owned enterprises in Law No. 3/2013 (Privatization, Corporatization, Monitoring and Evaluation of State-Owned Enterprises Act).

(l) "Gender" means the social and cultural definition given to women and men in relation to a particular sex. This includes the roles, behaviors, and other related matters of women and men, and the roles, work, and opportunities attributed to a particular sex in society.

