General Regulations Act

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This is an Act established to provide temporary legal authority to essential regulations for the administration of the state, provision of services to the general public, and law enforcement, from among those regulations in effect in the Maldives which were not made under the authority of an Act passed by the People's Majlis.

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "General Regulations Act".

Legal Force Granted to Regulations in the Schedules

    The regulations in Schedule 1 and Schedule 2 of this Act are hereby declared to be important regulations for the administration of the state, provision of services to the general public, and law enforcement, and are regulations that are in effect with the force of law under this Act and in accordance with it.

Authority for Implementing the Regulations in the Schedules

3.
(a) Each regulation in Schedule 1 of this Act shall be implemented and its related matters shall be managed by the authority or authorities specified in Schedule 1 for the implementation of that regulation.

(b) The regulations in Schedule 2 of this Act shall be implemented and their related matters shall be managed by the relevant judicial courts under the power of the administration of justice. However, regulations in Schedule 2 of this Act that are not specifically attributed to a particular court, or regulations for which it is unclear if they pertain to a specific court or courts, and regulations that pertain to multiple courts, shall be implemented and their related matters managed by the Judicial Service Commission.

Amending a Regulation in the Schedules

4.
(a) Any regulation in Schedule 1 and 2 of this Act may only be amended or changed as determined by the Regulations Committee.

(b) Should an authority designated under Article 3 of this Act to implement a regulation wish to make a change to that regulation, that authority may submit the matter to the Regulations Committee.

Duration of Application for Regulations in the Schedules

5.
(a) The regulations in Schedule 1 and Schedule 2 of this Act shall be in effect for a period of 12 (twelve) months from the date this Act comes into force.

(b) This Act does not prevent the extension of the period of application for a regulation or regulations in Schedule 1 and Schedule 2 of this Act beyond 12 (twelve) months, if the Regulations Committee advises so, in a manner decided by the People's Majlis.

(c) Notwithstanding clauses (a) and (b) of this Article, if the People's Majlis passes an Act concerning a regulation in Schedule 1 and Schedule 2 of this Act and that Act comes into force, the regulation or the part of the regulation to which the Act pertains shall cease to have effect from the date the Act comes into force.

Nullification of a Regulation or Part of a Regulation

    If the Regulations Committee or a court of law determines that any regulation in Schedule 1 and Schedule 2 of this Act, or a part thereof, is in contravention of the Constitution or a law of the Maldives, that regulation or that part of the regulation shall be nullified.

Adding a Regulation to the Schedules

    If it is desired to add a regulation to Schedule 1 or Schedule 2 of this Act, upon submission of a request to the Regulations Committee, that regulation may be added to Schedule 1 or Schedule 2 in a manner determined and decided by the Regulations Committee.

Public Publication of Regulations

    The regulations in Schedule 1 and Schedule 2 of this Act shall be organized to be accessible to the public and shall be publicly published by the authority designated for its implementation under Article 3 of this Act.

Declaring Schedule 1 and Schedule 2 as a Part of this Act

    Schedule 1 and Schedule 2, referred to in Article 2 of this Act, are a part of this Act.

Commencement of the Act

    This Act shall come into force on the day it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

Definition

    "Regulations Committee" refers to the standing committee of the People's Majlis established to review, study, and express its views on regulations implemented by various authorities.

Schedule 1
Schedule 2
