Health Services Act

Chapter One
Introduction

Introduction and Name
1.
(a) This is an Act to establish a national system for the provision of health services in the Maldives, to establish principles related to the advancement of health services, to maintain the standard of health services provided in the Maldives, to stipulate the principles, standards, and conditions to be followed by facilities providing health services in the Maldives, to stipulate the principles, standards, and conditions to be followed by parties working in the health sector when providing health services, to specify the rights and responsibilities of health service providers and health service recipients, and to state all other related principles.
(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Health Services Act".

Main Purpose
2.
The main purposes of this Act are stated below.
(a) To establish a national health service system through which the health services and resources necessary for persons residing in the Maldives to attain and maintain physical and mental well-being are provided in a safe manner and at a reasonably good standard;
(b) To establish and state the principles and standards to be followed by parties providing health services in the Maldives;
(c) To operate the facilities, services, resources, and conveniences established by the State to provide health services to the public in a sustainable manner;
(d) To make the health services provided by the State accessible, safe, and high-quality services for all, and to make such services available at a specified standard and in a sustainable manner;
(e) To make the health services provided by private parties safe, high-quality, and services that are provided at a specified standard and in a sustainable manner;
(f) To protect the rights of all parties and facilities providing health services, and the employees working therein, and the recipients of health services from such facilities and parties, and to determine the responsibilities of such facilities and parties;
(g) To establish a robust system to monitor and ensure that parties providing health services in the Maldives are upholding the standards mandated by this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

Enforcement of the Act
3.
(a) The Minister shall bear the ultimate responsibility for the implementation and enforcement of this Act, and for carrying out the matters specified in this Act.
(b) The State shall provide the funds and resources necessary to fulfill the responsibility mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article.

Minister's Responsibilities
4.
The responsibilities and duties of the Minister in relation to the implementation and enforcement of this Act and the carrying out of matters specified in this Act include the following.
(a) To make the necessary arrangements to implement the system established for the provision of health services by the State as specified in this Act, and to ensure that the system is being implemented in a robust manner;
(b) To establish a procedure for the safe maintenance of resources established by the State for providing health services;
(c) To formulate plans for the sustainable development of human resources required for providing health services, and to ensure that these plans are being implemented;
(d) To make the necessary arrangements to ensure that the services designated to be provided by each institution established by the State for providing health services are delivered to the public equitably;
(b) To ensure that the health services provided to the public by institutions established by the State are delivered sustainably and in accordance with laws and regulations;
(f) To ensure that basic health services are available on every inhabited island in the Maldives, and to introduce and expand additional services based on a specified procedure;
(g) To make arrangements to ensure that private parties, in providing health services, act in accordance with laws and regulations;
(h) To establish a system to ensure the quality and safety of health services provided in the Maldives;
(i) To ensure that health services provided by the State are delivered at an affordable price accessible to all citizens, and to ensure that such services are safe and of good quality;
(j) To ensure that health services provided by the State are not services rendered with the intention of making a profit on commercial principles.

Minister's Powers
5.
(a) The powers vested in the Minister in relation to the implementation and enforcement of this Act and the carrying out of matters specified in this Act include the following powers.
(1) To carry out, either personally or through another party, all necessary actions to fulfill the responsibilities stated in Article 4 of this Act;
(2) Instead of delegating a specific power or responsibility to a specific person under this Act, to delegate that responsibility or power to a specific class of people or to people holding a specific position.
(b) The delegation of a power by the Minister to a specific person or party shall not be a barrier to the Minister exercising that power directly.
(c) The Minister is empowered to make the regulations necessary for the implementation of this Act and to enforce those regulations.

Director General of Health Services
5-1.
(a) The Director General of Health Services, upon the advice of the Minister, shall coordinate and manage the affairs of the national health service system as specified in this Act and the regulations made hereunder.
(b) The post of Director General is a Maldives Civil Service position. A person shall be appointed to this position by the Civil Service Commission upon the recommendation of the Ministry.
(c) A person appointed to the post of Director General must fulfill the following requirements.
(1) Possess at least a Maldives National Qualifications Framework Level-9 certificate in a specialized field of Allopathic Medicine and be registered with the Maldives Medical and Dental Council;
(2) Be a person with at least 10 (ten) years of experience working in the health sector, including at least 4 (four) years of work in the field of administration within that period.
(d) The Director General appointed under subsection (b) of this Article shall not hold any other employment or engage in any work that creates a conflict of interest with any of their official responsibilities.
(e) The term of a person appointed to the post of Director General shall be 5 (five) years from the date of their appointment to the post.
(f) If, at the time this Act comes into force, any person is appointed to the post of Director General at the Ministry, and if that person meets the requirements specified in this Act, that person shall be deemed, for the purposes of this Act, to be the person appointed to that post from the date this Act comes into force.
(g) The Ministry shall, in accordance with the law, provide the number of staff and resources necessary for the Director General to perform the duties and responsibilities assigned to them under this Act in the most complete manner.
(h) The Director General shall be answerable to the Minister regarding their responsibilities.

Responsibilities and Powers of the Director General
5-2.
The main responsibilities of the Director General of Health Services are stated below.
(a) To provide technical advice and guidance to the Minister for determining policies to develop the health sector and expand services, and for formulating health service plans, programs, and projects;
(b) To ensure that health services are creative and considerate of the needs of service recipients, while promoting the rights of the public and patients, and facilitating the participation of service users in the national health system;
(c) To identify issues within the health service delivery system, provide necessary advice and guidance to those active in the service, and to create a conducive environment for conducting consultations between health service recipients and providers to resolve issues;
(d) To formulate strategic business plans and operational policies to ensure the comprehensive, continuous, and convenient delivery of health services at the community and institutional levels;
(e) To undertake the necessary work to establish a suitable environment for the robust implementation of health sector strategies, standards, and regulations;
(f) To facilitate the use of health informatics by collecting service-related information and statistics to ensure the continuous, innovative, and sustainable progression of health services;
(g) To identify the necessary actions for implementing international treaties and agreements related to the health sector to which the Maldives is a party, to coordinate the extent to which these actions are being completed, and to take related necessary measures;
(h) To establish and sustainably develop centralized health sector resources, modern equipment, and technological tools used in the service, and to familiarize health service technical professionals and service providers with these resources;
(i) To identify the required studies and analyses for the sector and to provide technical advice for conducting these analyses and studies, in order to make policies implemented in the health sector policies based on valid information and evidence;
(j) To provide technical advice to the Ministry and other relevant institutions in the formulation of laws and regulations required for the health sector;
(k) To provide necessary advice for the operation of councils to which health service technical professionals belong, to provide necessary assistance to these councils, and to advise the Minister on the work of the councils;
(l) To work with civil society organizations involved in health-related work, to promote their participation in the most beneficial way for the health sector, and to guide them in conducting programs and projects necessary for advancing and strengthening the health status of the Maldives;
(m) To carry out other matters specified as the responsibility of the Director General in the regulations made under this Act.

National Health Service System
6.
(a) The national health service system shall be a comprehensive healthcare system that, for all persons living in the Maldives to attain and maintain mental and physical well-being, provides the necessary information, resources, services, and treatment to prevent and protect them from diseases and other health detriments in a sustainable manner, with adequate safety and at a good standard.
(b) To make the national health service system a system as described in subsection (a) of this Article, it must be ensured that the system includes the following.
(1) That the treatment and services provided by the system include preventive care, curative care, rehabilitative care, long-term care, palliative care, ancillary services, medical goods, and other additional services and resources;
(2) That the standards and principles of the primary health care approach, as determined by the World Health Organization, are implemented through the system to ensure the well-being of all persons residing in the Maldives; and
(3) That arrangements are in place for referral to primary, secondary, and tertiary level services in a manner that provides necessary health information, resources, and services to individuals and families living in islands and cities at a speed appropriate to their health condition, and in a high-quality and sustainable manner.
(c) The national health service system is composed of the health services provided by government-run or privately-run facilities for providing health services in the Maldives.
(d) The Ministry, in consultation with relevant parties, shall formulate and publicize a long-term health sector master plan that outlines how the national health service system of the Maldives will be built and developed in a way that achieves the objectives stated in Article 2 of this Act. The national health service system shall be operated in accordance with that master plan.
(e) The master plan mentioned in subsection (d) of this Article must be reviewed at least once every five years.
(f) The details of the procedures and standards to be established for providing the individual treatments and services included in subsection (b)(1) of this Article shall be specified in the regulation made under this Act.

Structure of the National Health Service System
7.
(a) The government shall establish, at a minimum, a center for providing basic health services on every inhabited island.
(b) On industrial islands and tourist resorts, the owner of the island or resort, or the operator of the resort, shall establish a system for providing basic health services at a standard determined by the Ministry.
(c) The main government-run hospital in Malé City is at the highest tier of the national health service system. That hospital is the National Referral Hospital.
(d) There shall be a government-run hospital in every city and every atoll in the Maldives. The health centers, clinics, and other health service facilities run by the government in that city or atoll shall be managed, maintained, and coordinated at the city or atoll level under the supervision of the Minister in accordance with this Act and regulations made hereunder, and under the direct supervision of the hospital located in that city or atoll.
(e) In addition to the hospitals or centers established by the government to provide health services on inhabited islands, the government may establish a health service system in partnership with private parties or through private parties according to a procedure determined by the government.
(f) Although it is stated in subsection (d) of this Article that all government-run health service centers in a city or atoll shall be operated under the supervision of the hospital established in that city or atoll, the government health service facilities established in Malé City shall be operated by a party or parties determined by the government upon the advice of the Minister.

Responsibilities of the Head of the City or Atoll Main Hospital
8.
The responsibilities of the head of the main hospital or main center designated by the Minister for the purpose of this Act to coordinate, manage, and oversee the facilities established and operated by the government to provide health services in cities and atolls, and the health services provided by the government in cities and atolls, are stated below.
(1) To manage and oversee the main government health service hospital in the city or atoll;
(2) To coordinate matters related to the health services provided at the facilities established and operated by the government to provide health services in the city or atoll;
(3) To be directly answerable to the Minister or a party designated by the Minister regarding the facilities established and operated by the government to provide health services in the city or atoll and the health services provided by them;
(4) In addition to the matters stated in numbers (1) to (3) of this subsection, to perform responsibilities assigned by the Minister or a party designated by the Minister.

Ministry's Responsibility
9.
It is the responsibility of the Ministry to determine health service policies, to determine the structure of the national health service system, to provide the funds and other resources required for the national health service system, to develop the technical personnel required for health services, to provide health services in a sustainable manner, to collect and maintain information regarding health services, to conduct studies related to health services, and to ensure that the quality of health services is maintained.

Procurement of Machinery and Equipment for Health Services
10.
(a) A procurement system shall be established and maintained under the Ministry or delegated to a party determined by the Ministry, in order to ensure the quality of medical devices, equipment, machinery, and medical consumables needed by government-run hospitals and centers within the national health service system, and to provide them in a sustainable manner.
(b) If the procurement system mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article is operated under the Ministry, the method of operation and the classifications and levels of employees shall be determined in the regulation made under this Act.

Preventive Care Service
10-1
The preventive care service provided through the national health service system established under Article 6 of this Act shall include the following services provided within the primary, secondary, and tertiary care of the public health system.
(a) Providing information on how to shape personal behavior to maintain good health, providing health-related information, increasing awareness, and providing related advice and counseling;
(b) Conducting vaccination and vaccine-related health monitoring activities;
(c) Conducting screening programs and activities for the early detection of diseases;
(d) Conducting screening programs and activities to prospectively identify and monitor for further health complications that may arise in connection with health conditions and diseases;
(e) Conducting other surveillance related to the risks of exposure to diseases and disabilities, and regarding diseases, and conducting disease control programs and activities;
(f) Programs and activities conducted in preparation for health situations that may arise in connection with epidemics and disasters, and in response to health situations arising from such epidemics and disasters;
(g) Rehabilitation programs and activities required for physical and social participation in the community;
(h) Health services provided to maintain the status of controlled and eradicated diseases in the Maldives;
(i) Other programs and activities determined by the Health Protection Agency as preventive care.

Setting Standards for Preventive Care Service
10-2.
(a) The technical standards and principles for national public health protection programs within preventive care services and for matters falling within the scope of these programs shall be determined by the Health Protection Agency and published in the Government Gazette.
(b) The technical standards determined under subsection (a) of this Article shall be reviewed at least once every two years based on advancements in science and technology. And if any change is made to these standards, that change shall be published in the Government Gazette.
(c) The information required to be reported through the national programs and surveillance system run by the Health Protection Agency in relation to preventive care services, and the standards for that information, shall be determined by that Agency and published in the Government Gazette.
(d) The standards to be set to ensure the quality of preventive care shall be determined by the Commissioner of Quality Assurance as per Article 25 of this Act and published in the Government Gazette.

Principles of Providing Preventive Care Services
10-3.
(a) Preventive care services shall be provided based on the principles of primary health care as determined by the World Health Organization.
(b) Based on the principles of primary health care, preventive care services shall be provided as a comprehensive service where various health professionals work together, participate in different stages of the service, and which informs and empowers the service recipient.
(c) In providing preventive care services based on the principles of primary health care, the following must be done.
(1) Work to empower families and the community in health matters when providing services;
(2) Work in collaboration with the council to which a particular island or city belongs and other service-providing parties and institutions on that island to protect the residents of that island or city from diseases.

Providing Preventive Care Service
10-4.
(a) The Ministry shall establish primary care service centers in the cities of the Maldives, staffed with technical personnel to provide preventive care services through the national health service system mentioned in Article 6 of this Act, to an extent that meets relevant international standards in proportion to the population.
(b) In classifying health services and determining the services to be available in each category under Article 28 of this Act, it must be ensured that all preventive care services are included in government-run primary, secondary, and tertiary care health service centers and hospitals.
(c) Health service facilities operated by private parties other than the government, registered with the Ministry, shall provide preventive care services determined by the Ministry as per the regulation made under this Act.
(d) Associations registered in the Maldives that carry out work related to preventive care may provide various preventive care services in accordance with this Act and as specified herein, meeting the standards laid down in the regulation made under this Act, after obtaining permission from the Ministry.

Ensuring Continuous Provision of Preventive Care Service
10-5.
(a) It is the responsibility of the person in charge of operating each health service facility to make the necessary arrangements to ensure that the preventive care services provided at that facility meet the specified standards and are delivered according to the principles of primary health care.
(b) It is the responsibility of the person in charge of operating the facility to manage the system according to the principles of primary health care as specified in this Act and the regulations made hereunder, and to report the relevant statistics.
(c) The Director General shall provide the necessary guidance and advice to those in charge of operating government-run health service facilities for the provision of preventive care services in accordance with the standards set under this Act and based on the principles of primary health care, and shall ensure the uninterrupted delivery of these services.

Monitoring the Quality and Safety of Preventive Care Service
10-6.
(a) The Commissioner of Quality Assurance shall inspect and monitor the quality and safety of preventive care services provided at each health service facility to ensure they comply with the technical standards set by the Health Protection Agency.
(b) In carrying out the responsibility mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article, if the Commissioner finds that the standard of preventive care services provided does not meet the technical standards specified in this Act, they shall issue instructions to rectify the issues as per the regulation made under this Act. And those facilities must rectify the issues and bring the service quality to the specified standard.
(c) If the Commissioner instructs any health service facility under this Article to improve the standard of preventive care services provided, the Director General must be informed. The Director General must then monitor these matters.
(d) The procedures and processes for the Commissioner to act in inspecting, monitoring, and taking measures to ensure that preventive care services are provided in accordance with the technical standards set by the Health Protection Agency shall be specified in the regulation made under this Act.

Procuring Resources for Preventive Care Services
10-7.
The funds required to provide preventive care services at a reasonably good standard shall be included in the annual state budget passed by the People's Majlis each year and disbursed to the Ministry from the State treasury.

Chapter Two
Operation of Health Service Facilities

Registration and Licensing
11.
(a) Any type of health service in the Maldives shall only be provided after registering the facility providing the service and obtaining a license to provide that service, in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.
(b) The facilities and services that must be registered and licensed as health services, and the classification of those services or facilities, shall be specified in the regulation made under this Act.
(c) The procedures to be followed for registering health services that must be registered under this Act, and for obtaining licenses for those facilities, shall be specified in the regulation made under this Act.
(d) Under this Act, health service facilities shall be registered. And under this Act, licenses shall be issued for the health services provided by those facilities. The registration of professionals working in the health service field and the issuance of licenses for them to work in their respective fields shall be done under the relevant law.

Registration
12.
(a) Any type of health service in the Maldives shall only be provided after the facility has been registered with the Ministry in accordance with the regulation made under this Act.
(b) An application to register a health service facility as per subsection (a) of this Article shall be submitted to the Ministry in accordance with the regulation made under this Act.
(c) Health service facilities shall be registered after the payment of a registration fee specified in the regulation made under this Act.
(d) After a health service facility is registered with the Ministry under this Act, the registration does not need to be renewed, except in the situation described in subsection (e) of this Article.
(e) The registration issued to a health service facility shall only require renewal if a change is made to the registered classification of the facility, or in cases where the registration of the facility is revoked for any reason, under circumstances where the regulation made under this Act permits re-registration.
(f) The procedures to be followed for registering health service facilities and renewing their registration shall be specified in the regulation made under this Act.

Temporary Suspension and Revocation of Registration
13.
(a) If any of the following circumstances arise, the Ministry has the authority to temporarily suspend the registration issued to a facility registered to provide health services.
(1) Violation of a condition specified in the issuance of the license to that facility;
(2) Failure to meet the standards required for service delivery as specified in the regulation made under this Act;
(3) Causing harm to any person due to negligence on the part of the facility.
(b) If it is proven in court that a criminal offense has occurred at a facility registered to provide health services in connection with a service provided by that facility, and if the Ministry finds that this occurred with the knowledge of a person or persons involved in the management of the facility, or due to the negligence of such person or persons without their knowledge, the Ministry has the authority to revoke the registration issued to that facility.
(c) The registration of a health service facility under this Article shall be temporarily suspended or revoked in accordance with the procedures specified in the regulation made under this Act.

Obtaining a License
14.
(a) Even if a health service facility is registered under Article 12 of this Act, health services can only be provided by that facility after obtaining a health service provision license issued in accordance with this Act.
(b) An application to obtain a license as per subsection (a) of this Article shall be submitted to the Ministry in accordance with the regulation made under this Act.
(c) A regulation specifying the rules for issuing licenses to health service facilities registered under this Act, the matters to be considered when issuing licenses to these facilities, and other rules regarding license issuance shall be made and published in the Government Gazette within 180 (one hundred and eighty) days from the date this Act comes into force.

Transitional Provisions for Registration and Licensing
15.
(a) Health service facilities registered with the Ministry before the commencement of this Act must, within 180 (one hundred and eighty) days from the date this Act comes into force, apply to the Ministry for registration under this Act and to obtain a license issued under this Act.
(b) The Ministry shall, in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder, make all necessary arrangements to register health service facilities and issue licenses to them under subsection (a) of this Article.

Classification of Licensed Facilities
16.
(a) The Ministry shall classify health service facilities and the health services they provide into categories based on the services that must be registered and licensed as health services and the services provided by those facilities. The standards to be considered in classifying health service facilities and health services shall be published in the Government Gazette.
(b) After the commencement of this Act, the first set of standards formulated under subsection (a) of this Article shall be published in the Government Gazette within 120 (one hundred and twenty) days from the date this Act comes into force.
(c) The categories determined under subsection (a) of this Article, and the health services to be provided by the facilities included in those categories, shall be specified in the regulation made under this Act.
(d) If a party or facility licensed to provide health services intends to provide any other health service in addition to the specific services authorized, they must apply for permission to provide the intended service in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

License Duration
17.
Unless otherwise stated in this Act, a license to provide health services shall be issued to a health service facility for a period of 5 (five) years. The facility must apply to the Ministry to renew the license 180 (one hundred and eighty) days before the expiration of the license issued to it, in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

Annual Fee
18.
(a) Every facility issued a health service provision license shall pay an annual fee to the Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry once every year, in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder. The annual fee payable by the licensee shall be the amount of the annual fee determined for the category in which the licensee is included, as specified in the classification of health service facilities under this Act. The amount of the annual fee to be paid by health service facilities and service providers, based on their category, shall be specified in the regulation made under this Act.
(b) If the annual fee payable by health service facilities is not paid in accordance with the regulation made under this Act, the annual fee shall be accepted after the due date only with a fine determined as specified in the regulation.

Registration and Licensing Body
19.
(a) Health service facilities shall be registered, and licenses shall be issued to them, through a specific unit established for this purpose within the Ministry.
(b) No employee of the unit mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall engage in any activity that creates a conflict of interest, such as working in a health service facility, operating such a facility, being a shareholder of such a facility, or providing advice to such a facility.
(c) An advisory committee composed of 5 (five) members shall be formed by the Minister within 90 (ninety) days of the commencement of this Act to advise the unit mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article regarding registration and licensing.
(d) The Minister shall form the advisory committee for issuing health service licenses to include the following parties.
(1) A Medical Doctor;
(2) A nurse with a qualification higher than a diploma in the field of nursing;
(3) A person with a qualification higher than a diploma in the field of medical laboratory;
(4) A senior technical official from the Ministry's Quality Assurance;
(5) A senior technical official from the Ministry.
(e) The responsibilities of the committee, the operating procedures of the committee, the qualifications of members, and the term of members shall be specified in the regulation made under this Act.

Providing Services without Registration or License
20.
(a) Providing any type of health service in the Maldives without being registered as required by this Act and the regulations made hereunder, and without the health service provision license required by this Act and the regulations made hereunder, is an offense.
(b) It is an offense to provide services while the registration of a health service registered under this Act is revoked, or while the license issued to that facility under this Act is temporarily suspended or revoked.
(c) The operator of the health service facility shall be responsible for the offenses described in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article.
(d) Notwithstanding subsection (c) of this Article, this Article shall not prevent action from being taken against health service professionals working without registration or a license under the relevant laws and regulations.
(e) The penalty for a person who commits an offense described in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand) and MVR 1,000,000 (one million), or imprisonment for a term of between 3 (three) months and 5 (five) years.
(f) If the Ministry becomes aware that a service is being provided without being registered under this Act or without obtaining the required license under this Act, or without renewing the license, the Ministry has the authority to order the immediate closure of that facility and to take the necessary steps to close it.

Ensuring Health Service Professionals are Registered and Licensed
21.
(a) Parties and facilities authorized under this Act to provide health services shall provide any type of health service only through persons authorized under the relevant laws and regulations, and in accordance with the professional and scientific standards established for providing that service as per the laws and regulations made for that purpose.
(b) When applying for a health service provision license, the facility must have the health service professionals required to provide the treatment designated for that facility. Such persons must be registered with the relevant council or board of their profession and must have obtained a valid license to practice in their respective profession.
(c) Facilities licensed under this Act to provide health services must maintain a register of the health service professionals and other employees working at the facility. The operator of the facility must ensure that the professionals working at the health service facility are persons registered to work at that facility under the relevant laws and regulations.
(d) It is an offense to have any person work at a health service facility in contravention of subsections (b) and (c) of this Article.
(e) The penalty for a party who commits an offense described in subsection (d) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand) and MVR 1,000,000 (one million).

Scope of Government-Provided Health Services
22.
The services introduced in government-run health service facilities must be services introduced in line with government policies and the national development framework.

Use of New Technology
23.
A new health service, treatment, or health-related technology being introduced to the Maldives may only be provided to the public in accordance with the manner specified in the regulation made under this Act.

Chapter Three
Quality and Safety Assurance System for Health Services

Commissioner of Quality Assurance
24.
(a) To ensure the quality and safety of health services provided in the Maldives, a position named "Commissioner of Quality Assurance" shall be created and a person appointed to it, to inspect and audit health service facilities under this Act, to ensure that matters at those facilities are conducted in accordance with this Act and the regulations, procedures, standards, and processes specified hereunder, and to take necessary measures under this Act and the regulations made hereunder.
(b) A person shall be appointed to the position of Commissioner of Quality Assurance by the Civil Service Commission. This position shall be a civil service position equivalent to that of a Director General in the Civil Service. However, in addition to the general requirements specified in the regulations made under the Maldives Civil Service Act, the person appointed to this position must hold a Master's degree in the health sector.
(c) The Minister shall, in accordance with the law, provide the staff and resources necessary for the Commissioner of Quality Assurance to perform their duties.
(d) The employees mentioned in subsection (c) of this Article shall not be persons holding any other employment that creates a conflict of interest with their job responsibilities. These employees shall be provided with adequate benefits for being prohibited from holding other employment.

Powers and Responsibilities of the Commissioner
25.
The responsibilities of the Commissioner of Quality Assurance are stated below.
(a) To formulate the procedures and standards necessary to ensure the quality of health services and to protect employees and service recipients;
(b) To ensure that the procedures and standards formulated to ensure the quality of health services and to protect the employees and service recipients of health service facilities are fulfilled, and to review and amend the standards and procedures being followed;
(c) To check whether health service facilities are maintained in accordance with the manner specified in the regulation;
(d) To check whether the services that must be provided and are provided by health service facilities are delivered in accordance with the established regulations and standards;
(e) To check whether the technical staff of health service facilities are working in accordance with the procedures and standards specified in the regulation;
(f) To send inspectors to health service facilities, to inspect and audit those facilities, and if there are matters that need rectification, to instruct those parties to rectify them, and if the instructions given by the Commissioner are not followed, to take the necessary measures as specified in this Act and the regulations made hereunder;
(g) To independently hear and investigate complaints made by various parties regarding the provision of health services and to submit reports to the Minister;
(h) If a person suffers a serious injury at a health service facility, or if the Commissioner receives information that an incident has occurred due to negligence on the part of such a party, to investigate the matter and submit a report to the relevant board or council and to the Minister;
(i) To formulate and implement a national health service accreditation system.

Inspection
26.
(a) Employees sent by the Commissioner to inspect health service facilities, as empowered under this Act, are granted the power to do the following by this Act.
(1) To enter, inspect, and audit the service facility with prior notice or without prior notice;
(2) To meet with persons and employees at the health service facility and obtain information;
(3) To test equipment used at the facility or take samples from it to check the quality and safety of services provided by the health service facility and the equipment used therein;
(4) To inspect and make copies of all records and documents of the health service facility;
(5) In situations where information and testimony are required, to summon the necessary persons and take statements;
(6) To obtain additional information required in relation to the matter.
(b) The procedures for the Commissioner or persons designated by the Commissioner to follow when inspecting health service facilities under this Article shall be specified in the regulation made under this Act.
(c) The power granted to the Commissioner and the persons designated by them to inspect health service facilities under subsection (a) of this Article is granted in relation to the responsibilities assigned to the Commissioner in Article 25 of this Act. This does not include conducting investigations related to criminal offenses.
(d) If, during an inspection conducted by the Commissioner or a person designated by them under this Article, sufficient evidence is obtained to believe that a criminal offense has occurred, is occurring, or may occur, the matter shall be reported to the relevant investigative body in accordance with the relevant laws and regulations. The investigation shall then be conducted by that body.

Assisting the Commissioner
27.
(a) Health service facilities must cooperate in all work necessary for the Commissioner to perform their duties. Obstructing such work is an offense.
(b) The penalty for a person who commits the offense described in subsection (a) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 1,000 (one thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand).

Chapter Four
Rights and Responsibilities of Service Users and Providers

Services to be Available at Health Service Facilities
28.
The services specified in the regulation made under this Act as services that must be available from facilities belonging to a certain category of health service facility must be available at every facility included in that category.

Providing Complete Information to the Health Service User
29.
(a) Facilities providing health services must provide the following information to the service user.
(1) The health status of the service user;
(2) The available options for diagnosing the illness, the available options for treating the illness, and the services available at the facility;
(3) Services that could be used to diagnose the patient's health condition or to provide treatment but are not available at the service-providing facility;
(4) Among the available options for diagnosing and treating the illness, sufficient information for the patient to make their own decision about the treatment, including the benefits of the treatment for that illness, the potential risks, and the likely outcome;
(5) The estimated cost of the service and the time it will take;
(6) Except in the exceptional circumstances stated in Article 31 of this Act, the fact that the patient has the right to refuse the service, and the potential risks of refusing treatment in such a way.
(b) If the service provider believes that providing the information directly to the service user is not information that the user can bear, the information mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be given to a person designated by the patient or to the patient's guardian.
(c) If the service user is a minor under the age of 18 (eighteen), the information mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be given to their guardian.
(d) The information mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be given to the service user in a manner that they can understand.
(e) If a person has received treatment at a health service facility, whether admitted or otherwise, a document detailing all the services provided must be given to the patient, the patient's guardian, or another person chosen by the patient.

Obtaining Consent of the Service User
30.
(a) Except in the circumstances stated in Article 31 of this Act, no facility shall provide a health service without the consent of the service user.
(b) The circumstances in which written consent must be obtained shall be specified in the regulation made under this Act.
(c) Except in circumstances where written consent is required and in the circumstances stated in Article 31 of this Act, if the service user does not explicitly object to a service, it shall be considered that their consent exists to receive that service.
(d) Except in the circumstances stated in subsection (e) of this Article, consent for children under the age of 18 (eighteen) shall be given by the child's guardian.
(e) If the child for whom a health service is to be provided is between the ages of 15 (fifteen) and 18 (eighteen), that service shall be provided to the child only after obtaining the consent of the child in addition to the child's guardian.
(f) It is the responsibility of the health service provider to obtain the consent of the service user before providing a health service.
(g) For the purpose of this Article, the consent given by the service user refers to the consent given knowingly by the person receiving the service or by a person legally empowered to give consent on their behalf to receive a specific health service, after being informed as per Article 29 of this Act.

Circumstances Where Service Can Be Provided Without Consent
31.
(a) Notwithstanding Article 30 of this Act, health services may be provided without the consent of the service user in the following circumstances.
(1) When the service user's health condition does not permit them to give consent, upon the consent of a person designated to give consent on their behalf;
(2) When the service user's health condition does not permit them to give consent and they have not designated someone in writing to give consent, upon the consent of their legal guardian or custodian;
(3) When authorized by a law or a court order to provide a health service without the service user's consent;
(4) When the head of the public health protection institution deems that not providing the service to the user would pose a danger to public health;
(5) When the treating party believes that delaying treatment could endanger the person's life or cause major, irreversible health damage.
(b) The procedures for obtaining consent in the circumstances mentioned in subsections (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this Article, and the procedures for the health service facility to follow in the circumstances mentioned in subsections (a)(4) and (a)(5) of this Article, shall be specified in the regulation made under this Act.

Providing Health Service as a Medical Research or Clinical Trial
32.
(a) If any facility providing health services wishes to provide a service for the purpose of medical research or as a clinical trial, it must be done in accordance with the principles determined by the Ministry as per the regulation made under this Act.
(b) If any service provided by a facility providing health services is a service provided as a medical research or a clinical trial, the service recipient must be informed of this in writing and their consent obtained for it before the service is provided.

Health and Scientific Research
33.
(a) Health and scientific research related to health services in the Maldives shall be conducted after obtaining permission for it in the manner specified in this Act and the regulations made hereunder, and in accordance with the principles in that regulation.
(b) A relevant technical council shall be established at the Ministry to oversee the ethics of health and scientific research conducted in the Maldives.

Rights of the Service User
34.
(a) Every person has the right to receive all available treatments at a facility providing health services in their most complete form.
(b) Every patient has the right to receive complete information as per Article 29 of this Act.
(c) Except in the circumstances stated in Article 31 of this Act, every person has the right to refuse a service offered by a service provider.
(d) Every person has the opportunity to seek the advice of another doctor or health assistant regarding an illness.
(e) Every service user has the right to participate in making decisions related to their healthcare, except in the circumstances stated in Article 31 of this Act.

Responsibility of the Health Service Provider
35.
(a) It is the responsibility of the health service provider to ensure that every person receives all the rights stated in Article 34 of this Act.
(b) If the required consent is given by another party, the service provider must consult with the service user before giving consent, after considering the circumstances.
(c) Even in a situation where the service user lacks the legal capacity to give consent as stated in Article 30 of this Act, if that person can understand, the service provider must provide them with the information specified in Article 29 of this Act.
(d) If the service user cannot participate in making a decision related to their healthcare due to their health condition, and if providing that information will not cause further harm to their health, the information specified in Article 29 of this Act must be provided to the service user at the most appropriate time after providing the service.
(e) The service provider must ensure that the service provided to the service user is the most appropriate service based on national and professional standards and established evidence.

Providing Service without the Service User's Consent
36.
(a) If a person is admitted to a facility providing health services without their consent, whether by legal authority or in other circumstances, the facility must inform the person's family, or if the person is a foreigner employed in the Maldives, the place of employment, within 24 (twenty-four) hours. Alternatively, the Maldives Police Service must be informed within 24 (twenty-four) hours.
(b) If, in a situation as described in subsection (a) of this Article, the identity of the patient cannot be determined, the relevant government agency responsible for providing social protection and the Maldives Police Service must be informed within a maximum of 24 (twenty-four) hours.
(c) Health service facilities must establish a procedure, to a standard acceptable to the Ministry, on how to act when a person is brought to a healthcare facility in a situation as described in subsection (a) of this Article.

Publicizing Information on Service Charges
37.
Parties providing health services must publicize the prices they charge for their services in a way that is easily visible to the service recipient.

Information about Health Service Facilities and Their Services
38.
(a) The following information about the services provided by the service provider must be displayed at the service facility in a way that is visible to the service recipient.
(1) The types of services available at the facility and the services available at that time;
(2) How the service delivery is organized;
(3) The hours during which services are available;
(4) The procedure to be followed to obtain services;
(5) Ways to file a complaint if a problem arises;
(6) Additional information specified in the regulation made under this Act;
(7) Other information that the public may need regarding the services provided by the facility.
(b) The basic information that must be stored in the Health Information System used by health service facilities and for services within the national health service system, and the procedures for maintaining, sharing, and reporting such information, shall be specified in the regulation made under this Act.
(c) Information required to design the national health service system and provide services must be provided to the Ministry in accordance with the principles determined by the Ministry.

Maintaining Medical Records
39.
(a) The medical record of every person receiving health services must be securely maintained and kept by health service facilities in accordance with the principles specified in the regulation made under this Act. It is the responsibility of the most senior employee in charge of operating the health service facility to ensure that medical records are being maintained in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.
(b) The manner in which medical records must be compiled, the standards for their maintenance, and the procedures to be followed in maintaining them shall be specified in the regulation made under this Act.

Confidentiality
40.
(a) All information regarding the health condition of a person receiving health services, the treatment given or to be given, and any other information related to their health condition and the service they received is confidential and privileged information.
(b) Except in one of the following circumstances, no information as described in subsection (a) of this Article shall be disclosed by any party to an unauthorized party.
(1) Upon written permission from the person receiving the service;
(2) Upon order by a court;
(3) For the purpose of providing information that is required to be provided by a law, to the party mandated by that law to receive it;
(4) When a person empowered by this Act, in order to fulfill their responsibility, requests in writing to inspect any information about any patient in a health service facility or any record kept regarding them;
(5) Any information or record about a patient shall be shared with a party mentioned in this subsection or any other party only in accordance with the regulation made under this Act.
(c) Acting in contravention of subsection (b) of this Article is an offense.
(d) The penalty for a person who commits the offense described in subsection (c) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand). And if this offense is repeated, in addition to the fine, the judge has the discretion to imprison that person for a term not exceeding 1 (one) year.

Use of Medical Records
41.
Article 40 of this Act does not prevent the sharing of a service user's information with other healthcare providers for the purpose of providing service to them, and to the extent absolutely necessary for providing that service.

Inspection of Medical Records by Health Service Providers
42.
(a) A medical record of a person receiving services from a health service facility shall not be inspected by any party except in one of the following circumstances.
(1) In a situation where it is necessary for the relevant party at the facility to inspect it for the purpose of providing service to the service user;
(2) In a situation where information required for research or a similar scientific purpose is obtained by an authorized party, with permission from the health facility's research ethics committee or a similar relevant body;
(3) In a situation where information required for reviews and investigations conducted to improve service quality is obtained by an authorized party;
(4) In a situation where information required for statistical purposes is obtained under the relevant law and regulation;
(5) In a situation where information required to be provided under the relevant law for the purpose of public health protection is obtained by an authorized party;
(6) In a situation where information required to be provided to insurance schemes for health insurance purposes is obtained by an authorized party.
(b) The medical records of service users at health service facilities must not be accessible to all employees working at those facilities. The information should only be accessible to specifically authorized employees in the circumstances described in subsection (a) of this Article.
(c) The procedures to be followed for inspecting and obtaining medical records shall be specified in the regulation made under this Act.

Securely Maintaining Medical Records
43.
(a) Operators of health service facilities must establish robust systems to securely maintain the medical records of service users and to ensure that the information cannot be used by any party other than those authorized under this Act and the regulations made hereunder.
(b) Committing any of the following acts is an offense.
(1) Failing to perform a duty that one is responsible for in acting in accordance with the principles stated in Article 39(a) of this Act;
(2) Violating Article 42(a) or (b) of this Act;
(3) Damaging or destroying the medical record of any service user;
(4) Making any unauthorized addition, deletion, or alteration to any medical record;
(5) Failing to make a necessary correction to a medical record or failing to update the record when required;
(6) Providing incorrect information for inclusion in a medical record;
(7) Making a copy of any part of a medical record without authorization;
(8) Linking information identifying a service user with information indicating their health status without authorization;
(9) Using any person's medical record for any purpose without authorization;
(10) Connecting computer systems that maintain electronic medical records to any other system or network without authorization;
(11) Accessing computer systems that maintain electronic medical records or the programs used for that purpose, or making any unauthorized alteration to any of them.
(c) The penalty for a person who commits an offense described in subsection (b) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand). And if this offense is repeated, in addition to the fine, the judge has the discretion to imprison that person for a term not exceeding 1 (one) year.
(d) If the commission of an offense described in this Article was facilitated by the negligence of the service facility, that facility shall be fined an amount between MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand), and the Ministry shall have the authority to suspend the license of that facility for a period specified in the regulation made under this Act.

Providing Health Service Statistics to the Ministry
44.
(a) Information maintained by health service facilities shall be sent to the Ministry for the purposes of monitoring health services, for statistical purposes, and for publicizing statistics, in accordance with the procedure established under this Act.
(b) Health service facilities must obtain and maintain the information required to be sent to the Ministry under subsection (a) of this Article.

Submitting Complaints Regarding Services
45.
(a) If a person using a health service facility is dissatisfied with a service received or not received from that facility, that person has the right to submit a complaint to the management of that facility.
(b) Each service facility must have a defined system for accepting complaints related to the services it provides, a method for informing the complainant that the complaint has been received, and a system for investigating the complaint. The facility must investigate and respond to such submitted complaints.
(c) The procedure that a person wishing to submit a complaint through the established complaints system must follow shall be written and displayed in a publicly visible place at the health service facility. And every health service facility must work to make service users aware of this.
(d) If a complaint submitted regarding a service provided by a health service facility is not a complaint that can be investigated by the party to whom it is addressed, the health service facility must provide the service user with the necessary information, to the extent required by law, on how to submit the complaint to the state institution designated to investigate such complaints.
(e) If a health service facility does not respond to a complaint submitted about a service it provides, or if the service user is dissatisfied with the response given by the facility, they may submit the matter to the Ministry requesting an investigation within 30 (thirty) days of the facility making its decision.
(f) The Ministry, after investigating matters submitted to it under subsection (e) of this Article, must respond to the person who submitted the matter within a maximum of 30 (thirty) days.
(g) If the Ministry is unable to respond within the period specified in subsection (f) of this Article, it must inform the person who submitted the matter, stating the reason. The response must then be given as soon as possible.
(h) Parties wishing to submit a complaint regarding a service provided by a health service facility must act in accordance with the procedures established for that purpose.

Responsibilities of Health Service Users
46.
All persons receiving services from a health service facility shall be responsible for the following.
(a) To act in accordance with the rules and regulations of the health service facility;
(b) To provide necessary information to health service providers truthfully and to cooperate with them;
(c) To interact with health service providers respectfully;
(d) If refusing a service or treatment that the health service provider wishes to provide, to sign a declaration acknowledging personal responsibility for any potential harm in such a situation;
(e) Not to threaten, intimidate, or harm a health service provider.

Obstructing Services
47.
It is prohibited for any person or party to intentionally stop or obstruct the work of a health service facility.

Non-discrimination
48.
(a) No discrimination shall be practiced based on the race, country of origin, color, gender, age, physical or mental disability, political or other opinion, financial standing, family affiliation, or island of origin, or any other matter of the person to whom health services are being provided.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, providing specific types of services to a person based on their health condition, under an established procedure of a health service provider, is not discrimination as per subsection (a) of this Article.

Circumstances Where Service Can Be Refused
49.
(a) As a general principle, every person who comes to a health service facility shall be provided with service according to the facility's service provision procedure. However, health service providers have the right not to provide service to persons who, by any action or word, intimidate a health service provider, attempt to harm someone, issue a threat of such danger, or engage in physical, psychological, or sexual abuse.
(b) In a situation where a health service provider objects to providing service under subsection (a) of this Article, it is the responsibility of the health service facility to find another way for the person requesting service to receive treatment.
(c) The procedures to be followed in the circumstances described in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article shall be specified in the regulation made under this Act.

Chapter Five
Rights and Responsibilities of Employees of Health Service Facilities

Standards to be Adhered to by Employees
50.
(a) All employees working in the health sector must be people who adhere to and respect the policies and ethical standards of the sector.
(b) All employees working in the health sector must be free from personal prejudice, not prioritize personal interests, and give precedence to the interests of the health sector and the nation.
(c) No employee working in the health sector shall discriminate in providing services based on the race, country of origin, color, gender, age, physical or mental disability, political or other opinion, financial standing, family affiliation, or island of origin of the person receiving the service, or any other matter.
(d) All employees working in the health sector must be people who respect and adhere to all rules and codes of conduct of their place of work.
(e) While all employees working in the health sector are required to provide services equally to everyone as stated in subsection (c) of this Article, they must be people who abstain from all matters that create division and disagreement within the community, in order to ensure that the service is provided in such a manner and to earn and maintain the trust and respect of the public.
(f) Employees working in the health sector must fully cooperate and participate to the highest degree in all efforts made to make health services a service accepted by the public and to earn and maintain public trust.
(g) All employees working in the health sector must fully perform all responsibilities stated in this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

Benefits Provided to Employees
51.
Health service facilities must provide their employees with a reasonably safe working environment. Accordingly, employees must be given the following benefits and resources.
(a) Resources necessary to provide health services safely;
(b) Safety measures to be taken for the safety and protection of employees during working hours, and the establishment of necessary resources for this;
(c) To be given a salary commensurate with the job they perform and the responsibilities they bear;
(d) If an injury is sustained due to the work environment or in the performance of job duties without the employee's negligence, to be provided with appropriate medical treatment for it;
(e) An insurance system shall be established under a procedure determined by the Ministry to compensate for material losses incurred by healthcare workers in the performance of their job duties. This insurance system shall be established within 1 (one) year from the date this Act comes into force.

Whistleblower
52.
A health service facility shall not take any action against an employee who reports an undesirable act occurring within the facility to the attention of a relevant authority, for having provided that information.

Obstruction of Service by Employees
53.
(a) Since health service is an essential service, it is an offense for any employee of the health sector, for any reason, to exert pressure to stop or to stop a service or part of a service of a facility, thereby depriving the public of a service they are entitled to receive.
(b) The penalty for a person who commits the offense described in subsection (a) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand).
(c) If the employee who stopped the service or part of the service is a person registered with a council or board of a health service profession, the Ministry must submit the matter to that body. And that council or board must take action against them. And if the employee who stopped the service or part of the service is not a person belonging to a health service profession, the facility where the service or part of the service was stopped must take action against that person.

Non-liability for Actions Taken in Good Faith
54.
If an employee working at a facility providing health services, in the performance of their duties, takes a step or makes a decision in good faith and with due care, considering the circumstances and available resources, and an undesirable outcome results, they shall not be held liable for it.

Chapter Six
Blood Services

Blood Services
55.
The principles and standards to be followed for obtaining blood needed for health services, storing blood, conducting various analyses and studies related to blood, and transfusing blood to patients shall be determined by the Ministry upon the advice of the National Blood Council.

National Center for Blood Transfusion Services
56.
Maldivian Blood Services is the main agency operating under the Ministry for providing blood transfusion services, obtaining and storing blood, and conducting various analyses and studies related to blood within the national health service system.

Coordination of Blood Services
57.
Maldivian Blood Services shall establish the national system for blood services provided in government and private hospitals and centers, make the necessary regulations to operate the system, and coordinate and monitor all related matters.

Issuance of License for Blood Services
58.
(a) The standards and conditions for issuing licenses to government and private hospitals and centers to provide blood services shall be determined by Maldivian Blood Services.
(b) Licenses shall be issued in accordance with the standards and conditions determined by Maldivian Blood Services under subsection (a) of this Article by the unit mentioned in Article 19(a) of this Act.

National Blood Council
59.
(a) A council composed of 5 (five) members, named the "National Blood Council," shall be formed by the Minister within 90 (ninety) days of the commencement of this Act to determine policies for blood services and to advise the Minister on matters related to blood services.
(b) The council mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be formed to include the following fields.
(1) A senior technical official designated by the Ministry;
(2) A senior technical official managing Maldivian Blood Services;
(3) A technical expert from the field of blood services;
(4) A medical doctor specializing in the field of blood or a pathologist;
(5) A technical member from a private association working on awareness and protection regarding blood diseases.
(c) The members of the council shall not receive any salary or benefit except for a fee for the council meetings they attend. The fee mentioned in this Article shall be determined by the Minister of Finance and Treasury.
(d) The chairperson of the council shall be the technical member designated by the Ministry. In a situation where the chairperson of the council is unable to perform a required duty, the chairperson must delegate that duty to a member from within the council.
(e) The administrative affairs of the council shall be handled by the Ministry.
(f) The method of appointing members to the council, the term and qualifications of membership, and the procedures for holding council meetings shall be specified in the regulation made under this Act. That regulation shall determine how the council will operate, and the powers and principles of the council.

Ensuring Blood Safety
60.
(a) The procedures and standards necessary to ensure the safety of blood provision services by health service facilities shall be determined in the regulation made under this Act.
(b) Blood shall be regulated as a biological, by the entity to which the mandate for regulating biologicals has been assigned. And in processing blood and separating blood components, the Good Manufacturing Practices and the procedures and standards necessary to ensure safety shall be determined in the regulation made under this Act.

Blood Transactions
61.
(a) The sale and purchase of blood for use in health services is an offense.
(b) It is an offense for a person donating blood for use in health services, or an intermediary, or any other person involved, to give or receive a financial or other material benefit for donating or receiving blood.
(c) Giving a commemorative certificate or a commemorative plaque as a mark of appreciation for the service and to encourage blood donation, or giving something like a card indicating that the person is a regular blood donor, shall not be considered a material benefit as described in subsection (b) of this Article.
(d) No price shall be charged for the blood itself in providing blood transfusion services. However, this Article does not prevent charging a service fee for collecting, storing, testing, and other services.
(e) The penalty for a person who commits an offense described in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand). And if the offense is repeated, in addition to the fine, the judge has the discretion to imprison that person for a term not exceeding 1 (one) year.

Responsibilities of Blood Donors
62.
(a) If a person knows they have any disease or pathogen that can be transmitted through blood, or if they engage in an act or have a habit that facilitates the transmission of blood-borne diseases, they must not donate blood to anyone.
(b) If a blood donor, after donating blood, becomes aware of or notes something that raises questions about the safety of the blood they donated, or if they see a symptom of a blood-borne disease, or if they become aware that they have such a disease, they must inform the health service facility where they donated blood as soon as possible.

Chapter Seven
Medicines Used in the National Health Service System

Medicines Included in the National Health Service System
63.
(a) It is the responsibility of the Ministry to procure essential medicines needed for the national health service system and to provide them at a price accessible to service recipients.
(b) The Maldives Food and Drug Authority shall regulate, and make and enforce regulations for, the medicines and types of medicines and substances used as medicine in the national health service system.
(c) It is the responsibility of the Maldives Food and Drug Authority to identify obstacles to providing essential medicines as stated in subsection (a) of this Article and to assist the Ministry in resolving those obstacles.
(d) The Ministry shall determine the maximum price at which all medicines used in the national health service system can be sold, in order to make them available to service recipients at an accessible price.

Importation of Medicines for Use in the National Health Service System
64.
(a) Medicines needed by health service facilities may only be imported in accordance with the laws and regulations on medicine importation and this Act and the regulations made hereunder.
(b) It is prohibited for parties without a license to import medicines to import and sell them.
(c) The penalty for a person who commits the offense described in subsection (b) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand), along with imprisonment for a term not exceeding 1 (one) year.

Sale and Responsible Use of Medicines
65.
(a) The service of selling medicine at a health service facility may only be provided in accordance with the laws and regulations on the sale and use of medicines and this Act and the regulations made hereunder.
(b) The Maldives Food and Drug Authority shall inspect and monitor the way medicines and types of medicines are used in health service facilities and the way medicines are prescribed to patients, and furthermore, if an adverse effect is caused by a medicine or if the quality of a medicine is noted to be poor, it shall coordinate that matter.
(c) Only safe, high-quality medicines shall be imported and sold in the Maldives for use in the national health service system, or produced in the Maldives. And the medicines must be medicines authorized and registered by the Maldives Food and Drug Authority.
(d) The regulations, procedures, and standards required to regulate the medicines imported into and used in the Maldives for the national health service system shall be formulated and publicized by the Maldives Food and Drug Authority.
(e) The Maldives Food and Drug Authority has the authority to inspect health service centers and hospitals, and places where medicines are stored and warehouses, and pharmacies and similar places, and to take samples to the extent necessary for testing, in order to ensure the safety and quality of medicines. Obstructing this is an offense.
(f) The penalty for a person who commits the offense described in subsection (e) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand), along with imprisonment for a term not exceeding 1 (one) year.
(g) It is an offense to conduct any transaction in the Maldives with medicines whose quality and safety are not assured, such as expired, damaged, or adulterated medicines, or medicines whose contents are unknown, or medicines labeled in a way that obscures the original medicine, or counterfeit medicines.
(h) The penalty for a person who commits the offense described in subsection (g) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand), along with imprisonment for a term not exceeding 1 (one) year.

Registry of Medicines
66.
(a) A registry of medicines permitted to be imported and sold in the Maldives for use in the national health service system shall be established and publicized by the Maldives Food and Drug Authority. And that registry must be regularly maintained.
(b) A registry of essential medicines needed for the national health service system shall be established and publicized by the Maldives Food and Drug Authority. And that registry must be regularly maintained.
(c) The regulations, conditions, and procedures regarding the registration of medicines shall be specified in the regulation made under this Act.

Advisory Board on Medicines
67.
(a) The Minister shall form a board named the "National Pharmaceutical Board" to advise the Maldives Food and Drug Authority on policy-making and regulation-making regarding prescription drugs, vaccines, substances used as medicines, and medical devices. The administrative work of this board shall be handled by the Maldives Food and Drug Authority.
(b) The board mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall consist of 10 (ten) members appointed from the following fields.
(1) 3 (three) specialists from 3 (three) clinical fields of the National Referral Hospital;
(2) A representative to represent the Health Protection Agency;
(3) A senior technical official from the Ministry;
(4) The head of the Maldives Food and Drug Authority;
(5) A representative to represent the National Drug Agency;
(6) A representative to represent the Maldives Customs Service;
(7) A representative to represent the Ministry of Economic Development;
(8) The most senior official for medicine-related matters at the Maldives Food and Drug Authority (Pharmacist).
(c) The responsibilities of the board formed under subsection (a) of this Article, the operating procedures of the board, the qualifications of members, and the term of members shall be specified in the regulation made under this Act.

Chapter Eight
Miscellaneous

Seeking Permission for Services
68.
A request for permission to provide a service under this Act shall be submitted by the person receiving the service or a person designated by them.

Forensic Analysis and Post-mortem
69.
(a) The Minister shall designate a health service center or agency within the national health service system to conduct forensic analyses, post-mortems, and similar analyses.
(b) Any analysis conducted under subsection (a) of this Article must be done in accordance with the regulation made under this Act.

General Offense
70.
In addition to the offenses for which a specific act is declared an offense and a penalty is prescribed in this Act, any act committed in contravention of this Act, any act committed contrary to the manner specified in this Act, any matters carried out contrary to the manner specified in this Act, and any matters for which a specific act is declared an offense but no penalty is prescribed in this Act, are offenses under this Act. The penalty for such an offense is a fine of between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand).

Protection for Persons Enforcing the Act
71.
No prosecution shall be brought against the Minister or a person authorized by them for an act done in good faith in order to enforce this Act or a regulation made under this Act, which is a matter required to be done under this Act. And they shall not bear any legal or Sharia liability.

Formulating and Implementing Regulations
72.
(a) Unless otherwise stated in this Act, the regulations necessary to implement and enforce this Act shall be made and implemented by the Ministry.
(b) Unless otherwise stated in this Act, the regulations to be made under this Act shall be made by the Ministry and published in the Government Gazette within 180 (one hundred and eighty) days from the date this Act comes into force.

Commencement of the Act
73.
This Act shall come into force from the date of completion of 12 (twelve) months from the date this Act is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette.

Definitions
74.
Unless the context in which a phrase or word is used in this Act clearly indicates otherwise, the following phrases and words shall have the meanings given below.
(a) "Health service" refers to all services provided for the prevention of diseases and for the treatment of diseases.
(b) "Minister" refers to the minister of the ministry to which the responsibility of implementing health policies is assigned at the time.
(c) "Ministry" refers to the ministry to which the responsibility of implementing health policies is assigned at the time.
(d) "Basic health service" refers to the minimum services determined by the Ministry to be available on inhabited islands or tourist or industrial islands.
(e) "Medical record" refers to all information recorded on paper or electronically about a patient during the course of service provision, including the personal information of health service users, the results and findings of analyses conducted, and the treatment given.
(f) "Party" refers to individuals and legal persons, inclusively.
(g) "Blood" refers to human blood, blood components, and blood products.
(h) "Medicine and types of medicine" refers to prescription or alternative medicine or medicines used in Maldivian traditional medicine, and types of medicine, medical gas, vaccines, and biologicals, inclusively.
(i) "Health Information System" refers to a system where service-related, administrative, facility-related, or patient information is collected on paper or electronically at a health service facility. This system also includes health information provided or collected during community services or mobile services provided by a health service facility with the community.
(j) "National health service accreditation system" refers to the system for determining and grading the quality of health service facilities.
(k) "Operator of a health service facility" refers to the party in whose name the health service facility is registered.
(l) "Procurement system" refers to the unit or section established at the Ministry or at a party assigned by the Ministry to procure and supply medical devices, equipment, machinery, and medical consumables needed by government-run hospitals and centers.
(m) "Category" refers to the grade given after determining the standard of health service facilities.
(n) "Employees working in the health sector" refers to all parties who are answerable to the Minister, inclusively.
(o) "Medicine" refers to prescription medicine and alternative medicine. Prescription medicine refers to any medicine and its bulk chemical used as a treatment for a disease according to medical principles. Alternative medicine refers to any medicine given as a treatment for a disease in accordance with the principles of that discipline.
(p) "Public health", unless otherwise specified in another law, for the purpose of this Act, shall be defined as stated in Act No. 7/2012 (Public Health Protection Act).
(q) "Director General of Health Services" or "Director General" refers to the Director General of Health Services appointed under Article 5-1 of this Act.
(r) "Principles of primary health care" refers to the primary health care standards determined by the World Health Organization in designing health services.
10-1.
(d) Conducting screening programs and activities to prospectively identify and monitor for further health complications that may arise in connection with health conditions and diseases;
