Judges' Act of the Maldives

Introduction and Name

    (a) This is the Judges' Act of the Maldives, as stipulated in Article 149 (b) of the Constitution.
    (b) This Act sets forth the responsibilities of judges, the qualifications required for judges, the powers of judges, the code of conduct for judges, general principles of employment, and principles relating to salary and benefits.
    (c) This Act shall be cited as the "Judges' Act of the Maldives".

The Position of a Judge

    (a) The position of a judge is a position entrusted to persons appointed in accordance with the Constitution and the law, for the purpose of fulfilling the state's judicial responsibilities and the duty of establishing justice.
    (b) In fulfilling the duties of a judge, the highest standards of sincerity, integrity, loyalty, trustworthiness, accountability, and work ethic must be maintained.
    (c) The responsibilities and powers of judges shall be exercised in a manner that includes adherence to the principles stated in the Constitution, Law No. 10/2008 (Judicial Service Commission Act), this Act, and the regulations made under this Act.

Definition of Judges

    (a) Unless the context in which the term is used in this Act implies a different meaning, "judges" refers to persons entrusted with the position described in Article 2 (a) of this Act in the Supreme Court, the High Court of the Maldives, and the lower courts established in accordance with an Act passed by the People's Majlis.
    (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, persons who remain in the position of a judge in accordance with Article 285 (a) of the Constitution shall, for the purposes of this Act, be considered judges until they are appointed to that position under Article 285 (c) or are removed from the position under Article 285 (d).
    (c) While courts of different levels are established in the Maldives as stipulated in the Constitution, this Act does not preclude addressing judges by a specific title or designating a particular judge as a judge of a certain level, based on the level of their respective courts.

Chapter One

Main Principles Concerning Judges

Independence and Autonomy

    (a) In establishing justice and in fulfilling the responsibilities and duties of their office, judges shall not be subject to the power or influence of any other person or institution.
    (b) No person, whether a private individual or a person in charge of administering a state affair, shall interfere with the work of judges or exert influence.
    (c) To protect the independence of the courts, to uphold the dignity and honor of the courts, and to make them places where anyone can easily submit a case and which operate in an impartial and robust manner, all state authorities and all persons in charge of administering state affairs shall assist the courts through laws and regulations and by other means.

Basis of Decisions, Judgments, and Orders of Judges

    (a) In making their decisions, judges shall act in accordance with the Constitution and the law. In deciding matters not specifically stipulated in the Constitution or the law, judges shall have regard to the manner in which that matter is determined in Islamic Sharia.
    (b) In accordance with subsection (a) of this Article, judges shall have regard to the following matters when discharging their judicial responsibilities.
    (1) The evidence and proof presented in the case.
    (2) A judgment previously made by that court in a similar case, or a judgment made by a higher court.
    (3) Impartiality, not yielding to the influence of any party, not being intimidated by any potential threat from any party, and abstaining from prejudice.

Continuity in Employment

    (a) Unless otherwise provided in the Constitution and the law, judges appointed as stipulated in the Constitution are not appointed for a fixed term. And those judges shall remain in office from their appointment until their retirement. And each of those judges shall work in the court to which he or she is appointed on a permanent basis.
    (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, this Article does not prevent the appointment of a judge for a term not exceeding 5 (five) years for a period of 15 (fifteen) years from the date of commencement of the Constitution.

Upholding the Integrity of the Judicial Position

    A judge shall, at all times, uphold the integrity of his or her independence, justice, and impartiality.

Salary and Benefits

    (a) Judges are entitled to receive a salary and benefits befitting the position of a judge.
    (b) The People's Majlis shall ensure that the salary determined in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article is an adequate salary and benefit for a judge to maintain his or her family and to protect his or her personal independence.

Non-accountability for a Decision Made by a Judge

    A judge shall not be held accountable by any party for an opinion given, an order issued, or a judgment made in the discharge of the responsibilities and duties of his or her office, except through the principles of appeal stated in the Constitution and the law, or through the principles stated in the Constitution and the law for taking action regarding the conduct of judges.

Right to Form Associations

    (a) Judges have the right to form associations among themselves, consisting solely of them, in order to work towards protecting the independence of judges, maintaining the freedom and autonomy of judges, and protecting their privileges.
    (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, to uphold the honor and dignity of judges, only one association shall be registered and operated at any one time under this Article.

Right to Further Training

    (a) Judges shall be provided with further training required for the discharge of their judicial responsibilities at the expense of the Maldivian state.
    (b) Unless otherwise provided in another law, the types and durations of the training mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article, and the manner in which such training is provided, shall be determined by the Department of Judicial Administration with the advice of the Chief Justice.

Privileges afforded to Judges

    (a) Except in a situation where a judge is caught in the act of committing a criminal offense, a judge shall be arrested on suspicion of committing a criminal offense during the discharge of judicial responsibilities, or on suspicion of committing a criminal offense in any other circumstance, only upon an order from a court higher than the court in which the judge serves. And such an order shall be requested from that court by the Prosecutor General, if, upon submission by the investigating body, the Prosecutor General deems it appropriate.
    (b) In a situation described in subsection (a) of this Article, if the judge to be arrested is a judge of the Supreme Court, he or she shall be arrested only upon an order made by a majority of the remaining judges of that court.

Protection and Security

    (a) The protection and security that must be provided to the Chief Justice shall be arranged by the Maldives National Defence Force.
    (b) The state's security forces shall establish principles for providing safety and security to judges other than the Chief Justice, and in accordance with those principles, the state's security forces shall make arrangements to provide safety and security to judges.
    (c) In establishing the principles mentioned in subsection (b) of this Article, the following matters shall be considered:
    (1) The general public perception of judges.
    (2) The extent to which a judge may be exposed to danger due to the types of cases he or she generally presides over.
    (3) The extent to which a judge may be exposed to danger in relation to a specific case he or she is presiding over.
    (4) The general state of affairs in the country.

Official Residence for the Chief Justice

13-1. (a) An official residence for the Chief Justice and his or her family to live in, an adequate number of staff for that residence, and the expenses for that residence shall be provided by the state.
(b) The official residence provided for the Chief Justice to live in under subsection (a) of this Article shall be a place where necessary security measures can be implemented.
(c) The security of the official residence of the Chief Justice shall be maintained by the Maldives National Defence Force.
(d) The staff required for the official residence of the Chief Justice shall be arranged by the Supreme Court.
(e) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this Article, the family of the Chief Justice refers to the Chief Justice's spouse living with him or her, children under the age of 18, unmarried children over the age of 18, children with special needs, and the Chief Justice's mother and father.

Informing a Judge of Any Action Taken Against Them

    If the Judicial Service Commission decides to take a measure permitted by the Constitution and the law against a judge, the judge shall be notified of it in writing before the measure is taken. And, if any document or note is added to a judge's information file, the judge shall be informed of it, and a copy of that document shall be given to the judge.

Chapter Two

Appointment and Removal of Judges

Qualifications Required for Judges

    (a) Persons appointed as judges shall, in accordance with this Article, be capable individuals with the education and experience required for the position of a judge, able to bear the duties and responsibilities of a judge. And they must be persons of good character.
    (b) In circumstances not otherwise provided for in the Constitution and the law, in addition to the qualifications specified in subsection (a) of this Article, a person appointed as a judge must meet the following criteria:
    (1) Be a Muslim and a follower of the Sunni sect;
    (2) Be at least 25 years of age;
    (3) Not have been convicted in a court of law of an offense for which a hadd is prescribed in Islam, an offense of treason, or an offense of bribery;
    (4) Be of sound mind.
    (5) Not be a person serving a sentence upon conviction of a criminal offense.
    (c) In determining that persons appointed to the judiciary are individuals who have obtained the required level of education for the position of a judge, from among the qualifications specified in subsection (a) of this Article, it shall be ascertained, for the purpose of Article 149 (a) of the Constitution, whether they meet the following criteria:
    (1) If applying to the Supreme Court, High Court, or a lower court, must have obtained a first degree in Islamic Sharia or Law, or in Law and Islamic Sharia;
    (2) If applying for the position of a judge in the magistrate courts among the lower courts, must have obtained a diploma in Islamic Sharia or Law, or in Law and Sharia;
    (3) The certificates submitted in this manner must be certificates accredited by the relevant authority in the Maldives.
    (d) In determining that persons appointed to the judiciary have the required level of experience for the position of a judge, from among the qualifications specified in subsection (a) of this Article, it shall be ascertained, for the purpose of Article 149 (a) of the Constitution, that they are persons who have worked as a judge or as a legal practitioner, or in both capacities, for the following periods:
    (1) A minimum of 7 (seven) years of experience for an applicant to the Supreme Court;
    (2) A minimum of 5 (five) years of experience for an applicant to the High Court;
    (3) A minimum of 2 (two) years of experience for an applicant to a lower court.
    (d)-1 Notwithstanding subsection (d) of this Article, in determining that persons appointed to the judiciary have the required level of experience for the position of a judge, from among the qualifications specified in subsection (a) of this Article, for the purpose of Article 149 (a) of the Constitution, if a person applying for the position of a judge in a magistrate court has 2 (two) years of experience in the position of a Legal Assistant in any such magistrate court, he or she shall be considered a person with adequate experience for the position of a magistrate court judge.
    (e) In determining that persons appointed to the judiciary are individuals of good character, from among the qualifications specified in subsection (a) of this Article, it shall be ascertained, for the purpose of Article 149 (a) of the Constitution, whether they meet the following criteria:
    (1) Not be a person who was convicted of an offense under the Penal Code, or committed any kind of immoral act, or committed an offense of terrorism, and the sentence for which was completed within the past 7 (seven) years;
    (2) If the person has an established debt that must be paid, be a person who is repaying that debt in accordance with the judgment.
    (f) For the purpose of making judges a group of people who work without bias towards any party, without fear of any potential threat from any party, and abstaining from prejudice, as specified in Article 142 of the Constitution, it shall be ascertained whether judges meet the following criteria:
    (1) Not be a member of a political party or a person active in political affairs;
    (2) Not be a person holding a political office elected or appointed under the Constitution or a law.
    (g) Judges who are working as judges at the time of the passing of this Act and who do not meet the qualifications specified in subsection (c) of this Article shall be given a period of 7 (seven) years by the Judicial Service Commission to fulfill those qualifications. If, at the end of that period, any such judge does not meet a qualification required to be met as specified in subsection (c) of this Article, the Judicial Service Commission has the discretion to determine that he or she is not a judge with adequate knowledge. And if the Commission so determines, it shall be proposed to the People's Majlis to remove him or her from office under Article 154 (b) of the Constitution.
    (h) Notwithstanding paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of this Article, a person appointed to the position of a Supreme Court judge must be at least 30 years of age.
    (i) Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Article, this Act does not prevent the qualifications required for judges of a lower court established by a specific law from being determined in that law.

Appointment of Judges

    (a) Unless otherwise determined by another law, for the purpose of Article 145 (a) of the Constitution, the Supreme Court shall consist of a total of 7 (seven) judges, including the Chief Justice and 6 (six) other judges.
    (b) A person shall be appointed to the position of Chief Justice of the Maldives by the President of the Republic in his capacity as the head of state. A person to be appointed to the position of Chief Justice shall be determined when a name selected by the President of the Republic, upon the advice of the Judicial Service Commission, is submitted to the People's Majlis, and the name is approved by a majority of the members present and voting in a session of the Majlis.
    (c) All judges of the Supreme Court shall be appointed by the President of the Republic in his capacity as the head of state. A person shall be appointed to the position of a judge of the Supreme Court when names selected by the President of the Republic, upon the advice of the Judicial Service Commission, are submitted to the People's Majlis, and the names are approved by a majority of the members present and voting in a session.
    (d) Unless otherwise determined by another law, for the purpose of Article 146 (a) of the Constitution, the High Court shall consist of 11 (eleven) judges.
    (e) Judges other than the Chief Justice and the judges of the Supreme Court shall be appointed by the Judicial Service Commission.

Appointment of Supreme Court Judges

    The following procedure shall be followed in appointing judges of the Supreme Court under this Act.
    (a) If it becomes necessary to appoint a person or persons to the position of a judge of the Supreme Court, the President of the Republic shall request the Judicial Service Commission to submit the names of persons proposed by the Judicial Service Commission, in accordance with subsection (c) of this Article, to the President of the Republic within 14 (fourteen) days of the position becoming vacant.
    (b) Upon the request of the President of the Republic to the Judicial Service Commission as specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the Commission shall invite applications from persons wishing to apply for the vacant judicial position in the Supreme Court. And on that occasion, the President of the Republic may also submit names he wishes to propose to the Commission, in accordance with the principles in this Article, requesting the Commission to consider them.
    (c) After the Judicial Service Commission has interviewed the persons who applied for the position of a judge of the Supreme Court under subsection (b) of this Article and who meet the qualifications for the position, the names of all qualified persons who were interviewed, and from among them, the names of the persons whom the Judicial Service Commission deems fit for appointment to the position of a judge of the Supreme Court, shall be submitted to the President of the Republic in a manner that clearly distinguishes them.
    (d) From among the names submitted to the President of the Republic by the Judicial Service Commission under subsection (c) of this Article, the President of the Republic shall submit to the People's Majlis a name or names, not less than the number of judges required to be appointed at that time, whom the President of the Republic deems fit for appointment to the position of a judge of the Supreme Court. And along with those names, all other names submitted to the President of the Republic by the Judicial Service Commission under subsection (c) of this Article shall be sent by the President of the Republic to the People's Majlis for their information.
    (e) A person shall be appointed to the position of a judge of the Supreme Court when, from among the name or names submitted by the President of the Republic to the People's Majlis for appointment to the position of a judge of the Supreme Court under subsection (d) of this Article, the name is approved by a majority of the members present and voting in a session of the People's Majlis.
    (f) Upon the approval of a name by the People's Majlis for appointment to the position of a judge of the Supreme Court as specified in subsection (e) of this Article, the President of the Republic shall appoint that person to the position of a judge of the Supreme Court within a maximum of 7 (seven) days from the date of approval by the Majlis.
    (g) If it becomes necessary to appoint a person to the position of Chief Justice under this Act, the procedure specified from subsection (a) to (f) of this Article shall be followed.

Appointment of Chief Judges and Judges of Courts

    (a) The Judicial Service Commission shall make a public announcement for interested parties to apply for judicial positions in the courts. After interviewing the parties interested in becoming a judge of the courts, the Judicial Service Commission, by a majority of its members, shall appoint the most suitable person based on education, experience, character, and capability.
    (b) The Judicial Service Commission shall appoint chief judges to the High Court and the lower courts. A chief judge shall be appointed from among the judges of that court by a majority of the members of the Judicial Service Commission, selecting the most suitable person based on education, experience, character, and capability.

Formation of the Supreme Court under Article 145 of the Constitution

    (a) Notwithstanding Article 17 of this Act, in forming the first Supreme Court under Article 145 of the Constitution, it shall suffice to act in accordance with subsection (b) of this Article.
    (b) In forming the first Supreme Court under Article 145 of the Constitution, the Chief Justice and other judges shall be appointed from a list compiled upon the advice of the Judicial Service Commission, after the names determined by the President of the Republic are submitted to the People's Majlis and approved by a majority of the members present and voting in a session of the Majlis.

Oath Taking

    (a) Every judge, before assuming office, shall take and subscribe to the oath set out in Schedule 1 of the Constitution, which is copied below. [I, ......................... (name of person), do swear in the name of Almighty Allah that I will respect the religion of Islam, uphold the Constitution and the law of the Republic of the Maldives, protect the rights of the people, and that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the Republic of the Maldives, and that I will discharge the duties and responsibilities of the Chief Justice / a Judge honestly and faithfully in accordance with the Constitution and the law of the Republic of the Maldives.]
    (b) The oath in subsection (a) of this Article shall be taken by the Chief Justice before the President of the Republic. Other judges shall take the oath before the Chief Justice or a judge designated by the Chief Justice.
    (c) The oath shall be administered, as provided in subsection (b) of this Article, by a judge designated by the Chief Justice. If the person taking the oath is the Chief Justice, the oath shall be administered to him by a judge designated by the judges of the Supreme Court.
    (d) In forming the first Supreme Court under Article 145 of the Constitution, when the Chief Justice takes the oath, it shall be administered to him by a judge of the High Court. And the oath shall be administered to the other judges of the Supreme Court by the Chief Justice.

Term of a Judge

    (a) Judges are not appointed for a specific term. However, a judge shall be retired from office upon reaching the age of 70.
    (b) The other provisions of subsection (a) of this Article do not prevent the appointment of a judge for a term not exceeding 5 (five) years for a period of 15 (fifteen) years from the date the current Constitution came into effect.

Removal of Judges from Office and Circumstances for Removal

    (a) A judge shall not be removed from office as long as he or she works within the bounds of the code of conduct and principles that judges must adhere to.
    (b) A person holding the position of a judge shall be removed from office only if the Judicial Service Commission finds that the person is incompetent or has committed an act unbecoming of the position, and upon the Commission's submission to the People's Majlis to remove the judge, it is passed by a two-thirds majority of the members present and voting in a session of the Majlis.

Cessation of a Judge's Position

    Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 22 of this Act, the judge concerned shall be removed from his or her judicial position in the following two circumstances for the purpose stated in the Constitution.
    (a) When the Judicial Service Commission determines that a judge from among those in office when the Constitution of the Republic of the Maldives came into effect does not fulfill one or more of the qualifications specified in Article 149 (a) and (b) of the Constitution and in this Act.
    (b) Upon the establishment of the Supreme Court specified in Article 145 (a) of the Constitution and the appointment of the Chief Justice and other judges to that court, the Supreme Court established under Article 282 of the Constitution shall be dissolved, and the term of its judges shall come to an end.
    (c) The Judicial Service Commission shall arrange the opportunity for judges to whom the principle in subsection (b) of this Article applies to work in another court. And their judicial employment will end if they do not make use of the opportunity given to work in another court. If they make use of the opportunity to work in another court, upon starting work in that court, their status shall be considered the status of the court in which that judge works.

Suspension in Relation to a Criminal Investigation

    (a) If a judge is arrested or detained on suspicion of a criminal offense, the Judicial Service Commission shall suspend that judge with pay.
    (b) Notwithstanding the provision in subsection (a) of this Article, if a criminal charge is brought against a judge, the Judicial Service Commission shall suspend that judge without pay until a final judgment is made on the matter.

Conviction of a Criminal Offense

    (a) The period for appealing a decision of a lower court regarding a criminal offense of which a judge is accused to the High Court of the Maldives is 10 (ten) days from the date the decision was made.
    (b) If a judgment made against a judge is appealed to the High Court of the Maldives within the period specified in subsection (a) of this Article, a decision on the matter shall be made within 30 (thirty) days from the date the matter is submitted.
    (c) The period for appealing a decision of the High Court of the Maldives regarding a criminal offense of which a judge is accused to the Supreme Court of the Maldives is 10 (ten) days from the date the decision was made.
    (d) If a judgment made against a judge is appealed to the Supreme Court of the Maldives within the period specified in subsection (c) of this Article, a decision on the matter shall be made within 30 (thirty) days from the date the matter is submitted.
    (e) When a judgment by a court of law finding a judge guilty of a criminal offense becomes a final judgment, that judge shall be removed from office.

Privileges and Benefits upon Honorable Departure

    (a) Every judge who leaves the judicial position under Article 23 (b) and Article 27 of this Act is a person who leaves the judiciary with honor.
    (b) Every person who leaves the judicial position under Article 23 (b) of this Act shall be given the following special benefits and privileges by the state.
    (1) The use of the title "Justice (Retired)" before his or her name when addressing him or her.
    (2)
    (i) If the judge is a person who has served the state for a period shorter than 20 (twenty) years, a monthly financial benefit equal to 1/2 (one-half) of the salary received by a judge holding a position in the Supreme Court.
    (ii) If the judge is a person who has served the state for a period between 20 (twenty) and 25 (twenty-five) years, a monthly financial benefit equal to 2/3 (two-thirds) of the salary received by a judge holding a position in the Supreme Court.
    (iii) If the judge is a person who has served the state for a period longer than 25 (twenty-five) years, a monthly financial benefit equal to 3/4 (three-quarters) of the salary received by a judge holding a position in the Supreme Court.
    (3) A financial benefit as a living allowance equal to the living allowance received by a judge holding a position in the Supreme Court.
    (4) Under a medical scheme, arrangement of healthcare for the retiring judge and his or her spouse from the Maldives, SAARC countries, and ASEAN countries.
    (5) Adequate and high-level security protection and safety for a person who has served as a judge of the Supreme Court.
    (6) Land transportation services in his or her island of residence.
    (7) The Supreme Court shall arrange for the honor, benefits, and protections due to him or her. And the financial benefits mentioned in this Article shall be received by that person from 7 August 2010.
    (c) Notwithstanding the other provisions of subsection (b) of this Article, when a person receiving privileges and benefits under this Article reaches the age of 70, he or she shall receive the benefits determined to be given to judges who are retired upon reaching the age of 70 under Article 28 (a) of this Act. And if the privileges and benefits received under this Article are less than the benefits a judge receives if he or she voluntarily retires from service upon reaching the age of 55 under Article 28 (b) of this Act, then upon reaching the age of 55, a person receiving privileges and benefits under this Article shall receive the benefits determined under Article 28 (b) of this Act.

Retirement Age for a Judge

    A judge shall be retired upon reaching the age of 70. And if a judge wishes to leave his or her position upon reaching the age of 55, he or she has the opportunity to voluntarily leave the position by submitting the matter to the Judicial Service Commission and in accordance with a procedure determined by the Judicial Service Commission.

Benefits for Retired Persons

    (a) The People's Majlis may determine an additional benefit for judges retired upon reaching the age of 70, in addition to the benefits provided under Law No. 8/2009 (Maldives Pension Act).
    (b) If a judge voluntarily retires from service upon reaching the age of 55 under Article 27 of this Act, the Judicial Service Commission has the discretion to arrange for a specific amount of money to be paid.
    (c) For judges who are retired upon reaching the age of 70 under Article 27 of this Act, and who, due to having reached the age of 65 when Law No. 8/2009 (Maldives Pension Act) came into effect, are not eligible for additional benefits other than the basic pension under that law, the Judicial Service Commission shall, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, arrange for a specific amount of money and benefits to be provided.

Vacancy of a Judicial Post

    If any of the following circumstances befalls a person holding a judicial position, the position he or she holds shall be deemed vacant.
    (a) Death;
    (b) Resignation;
    (c) Reaching the age of 70;
    (d) Removal from office as a result of a disciplinary action taken in accordance with this Act;
    (e) Voluntary retirement from the post upon reaching the age of 55, in accordance with this Act;
    (f) Transfer to a position other than a judicial position, in accordance with this Act;
    (g) Loss of a qualification required for a judge as specified in this Act;
    (h) Expiration of the term for a judge appointed for a fixed term;
    (i) Contesting for a political post appointed under the Constitution or a law;
    (j) Following the abolition of a court where a judge was working due to an amendment to the Constitution or a law, and being given the opportunity to work in another court, but declining to work in that other court.
    (k) From the moment a judgment by a court of law convicting a judge of a criminal offense becomes a final judgment, the judgeship of that judge is terminated. And the termination of the judgeship of that judge in this manner is not considered taking action in connection with a disciplinary or conduct-related matter under Article 154 of the Constitution, and therefore, the procedure for removing a judge from office under Article 154 of the Constitution or under a law shall not apply in this situation.

Resignation of a Judge

    (a) Should a judge wish to resign from his or her position, he or she shall be removed from the position from the date specified in a written submission to the Judicial Service Commission, indicating the intention to resign and the desired date of resignation.
    (b) A judge's resignation in accordance with this Act shall not deprive that judge of any pension or other benefits to which he or she is entitled.
    (c) If there is a gap of more than 7 (seven) days between the date of the resignation letter sent as per subsection (a) of this Article and the date of resignation, that judge shall recuse himself or herself from hearing the cases he or she is in charge of, from the date the resignation was submitted.

Appointing a Judge to a Vacant Post

    If a judge's position becomes vacant due to any of the circumstances mentioned in Article 29 of this Act, the Judicial Service Commission shall appoint a person to that position within a reasonable period.

Chapter Three

Code of Conduct, Responsibilities, and Powers of Judges

Code of Conduct for Judges

    (a) In discharging the responsibilities of a judge, the judge shall act in the following manner during his or her term of office.
    (1) Act in accordance with the Constitution and the law;
    (2) Not discriminate based on a person's race, country of origin, color, gender, physical or mental disability, political or other opinion, financial standing, family affiliation or island of origin, language spoken, or social status or position;
    (3) Carry out the work of a judge and make decisions independently, without fear or favor to any party, without seeking to gain an advantage for any party, and abstaining from prejudice, in accordance with the Constitution and the law;
    (4) Base the foundation of a judge's work on equality and transparency;
    (5) Not do any act, participate in any activity, make any statement, express any opinion, or in any other way, do anything that raises or could raise questions about the judge's freedom, independence, and fairness, and not speak with a political bias;
    (6) Not use information obtained by virtue of his or her position or the office he or she holds to obtain an unjust advantage for himself or herself or to obtain such an advantage for another person;
    (7) Not disclose information obtained by virtue of his or her position in any way other than for the purpose of discharging his or her duties and responsibilities;
    (8) Not be practically involved in running a business, engage in professional work to earn an income, do any other work that generates income (except for academic work), or hold employment with any other party;
    (9) Uphold the protection of his or her morals and reputation to a standard acceptable to society in all actions and at all times;
    (10) Not express political opinions or engage in political activities;
    (11) Not directly respond in the media or through a media outlet to a statement made by political parties or the media regarding a case the judge is presiding over or the court in which he or she works. And, to respond to issues arising in the media through a relevant court official;
    (12) No judge shall preside over a case involving a person related to him or her up to the third degree of kinship;
    (13) A judge shall not preside over any case in which he or she has a direct or indirect personal or vested interest, or where a relationship with any party involved in the case could impede the duties to be performed as a judge;
    (14) A judge shall not accept a gift in any form from any party to a case, a lawyer of a party, or a person connected to any such person. Nor shall permission be given to a family member or a subordinate employee to accept such a gift knowingly;
    (15) Not use incriminating or accusatory language, or sarcastic rhetoric, directed at a person appearing in any case or a legal counsel.
    (b) The Judicial Service Commission has the power to formulate and implement detailed standards necessary to uphold the main principles stated in subsection (a) of this Article.

Responsibilities of Judges

    The responsibilities of judges include the following.
    (a) To conduct court proceedings in a fair, honest, and transparent manner in accordance with the Constitution and existing laws;
    (b) To respect all laws and regulations of the Maldives and to uphold professional standards of work;
    (c) To be patient, responsible, and helpful when dealing with legal counsels, witnesses, members of the public, and all parties who must be met during working hours in relation to a case;
    (d) To provide adequate opportunity to the parties to the case or the persons representing the parties, in accordance with procedure, to present the necessary evidence and proof and to make statements related to the case;
    (e) To work to uphold, protect, and promote the rule of law, and to defend the safety of the people, the interests of the people, and public freedom;
    (f) To fulfill all legal duties prescribed for judges and all responsibilities assigned to judges by the Constitution and the law;
    (g) To act in accordance with the code of conduct for judges when dealing with all parties met in an official capacity in connection with cases and otherwise;
    (h) To do all things necessary to discharge all responsibilities that judges are required to discharge by the Constitution and the law.

Powers of Judges

    Judges are empowered within the scope of the Constitution and the law. Thus, the powers of judges include the following.
    (a) To use the discretion vested in them in a just manner, without bias and without prejudice, in performing their role as judges;
    (b) To respect and protect the fundamental rights of the people in performing their role as judges;
    (c) To do all things necessary to discharge all responsibilities that judges are required to discharge by the Constitution and the law.

Responsibilities of the Chief Justice

    The responsibilities of the Chief Justice include the following.
    (a) To implement the matters prescribed by the Constitution and the law with sincerity and to encourage judges to conduct their actions in the same manner;
    (b) To determine the direction and goals for shaping the long-term future of the judicial process;
    (c) To provide necessary assistance and guidance to the courts in order to uphold and develop the freedom and independence of the judicial system;
    (d) To ensure that all judicial bodies work together effectively;
    (e) To assist the court in matters and situations where the court is required to be accountable;
    (f) To provide necessary advice and counsel to the entities that organize and manage the general administrative affairs of the power of establishing justice in the running of the court's affairs;
    (g) To work to uphold, protect, and promote the rule of law, and to defend the safety of the people, the interests of the people, and the public interest;
    (h) To take the lead in determining all regulations and principles necessary for the operation of the courts;
    (i) To fulfill all legal duties prescribed for the court and all responsibilities assigned to the Chief Justice by the Constitution and the law.

Responsibilities of Chief Judges

    The responsibilities of the chief judges of the courts include the following.
    (a) To discharge the responsibilities and powers specified in Articles 33 and 34 of this Act in the manner specified in those two articles and to ensure these are met by other judges as well;
    (b) To provide advice and assistance to the court in formulating, developing, and implementing policies and projects for the development of the court;
    (c) To assist the court in matters and situations where the court is required to be accountable;
    (d) To provide necessary advice and counsel to the entities that organize and manage the general administrative affairs of the power of establishing justice in the running of the court's affairs;
    (e) To work to uphold, protect, and promote the rule of law, and to defend the safety of the people, the interests of the people, and the public interest;
    (f) To determine the direction and goals for shaping the future of the court;
    (g) To provide necessary assistance and guidance to the courts at that level in order to uphold and develop the freedom and independence of the judicial system;
    (h) To fulfill all legal duties prescribed for the court and all responsibilities assigned to the chief judge by the Constitution and the law.

Holding Judges Accountable

    In the following situations, judges may be held accountable in accordance with Article 38 of this Act and other related articles.
    (a) Committing an act that is a clear violation of judicial duties or an act that is deemed impermissible for a judge to commit;
    (b) Committing an act that is deemed to undermine the dignity and honor of the judicial position;
    (c) Committing an act that is deemed to undermine the dignity and honor of the court.

Power to take action against Judges

    (a) Taking disciplinary action against judges is a matter that falls within the jurisdiction of the Judicial Service Commission.

Chapter Four

Salary and Benefits

Salary and Benefits

    The salary and benefits for the position of a judge shall be determined by the People's Majlis, with reference to Article 8 of this Act.

Benefits in addition to Salary

    (a) Under a medical scheme, arrangements shall be made at the state's expense for every judge, his or her biological children under the age of 18, his or her spouse, and his or her parents to receive medical treatment in the Maldives or abroad.
    (b) Every judge shall receive a living allowance in addition to their salary. And in providing the living allowance, the standard of living in the island where the judge resides shall be considered. And, there shall be no difference in living allowance among judges working in the same court. And different types of living allowances or different benefits for the convenience of living shall not be given to different judges.
    (c) This Act does not prevent judges from receiving special financial benefits provided to state employees, in addition to the benefits specified in this Article.

Chapter Five

Other Matters Relating to the Work of a Judge

Judges Not to be Arbitrators outside of Court

    No judge shall, without the permission of the Judicial Service Commission, act as an arbitrator in a case heard outside of court, whether for a fee or pro bono. However, with the permission of the Judicial Service Commission, one may act as an arbitrator on behalf of a government or state institution.

Permissible and Impermissible Activities for Judges in Office

    It is not incompatible with the office of a judge to perform the following types of work.
    (a) To do work aimed at strengthening and developing the judicial sector.
    (b) To write academic articles, write essays, and teach, without the intention of seeking political advantage for any party.
    (c) To work in a judges' association or an association that exclusively carries out academic work.
    (d) To manage one's personal life in a manner that does not undermine the independence and dignity of the judiciary and the judicial sector.
    (e) Judges may participate in various funds established for public employees by the state. However, a judge shall not be a person who manages any such fund.
    (f) In addition to these, any work determined by the Judicial Service Commission not to undermine the freedom, independence, and responsibility of the judiciary may be done.
    (g) To conduct securities trading and to engage in transactions related to the stock exchange, in accordance with Law No. 2/2006 (Maldives Financial Securities Act) and the regulations made thereunder.

Prohibited Work for Judges

    A judge shall under no circumstances perform the work specified below.
    (a) To hold any other state office besides the judiciary.
    (b) To hold employment with a private party.
    (c) For as long as a judge remains a judge, to work as a lawyer in any case, or to run a law firm, or to work in such a place.

Abolition of a Court where a Judge Works

    (a) Should the court in which a judge works be abolished, if he or she agrees to serve in the position of a judge in another court of the same level, he or she shall be appointed to such a position.
    (b) Should the court in which a judge works be abolished, and if that court is the only court at that level, if that judge agrees to be appointed as a judge of the court at the level immediately below the abolished level, he or she shall be appointed to such a position.

Submitting a Complaint regarding Suspension from Work

    If a judge is suspended from work on suspicion of an offense, that judge has the right to submit a complaint to the Judicial Service Commission regarding the matter within 15 (fifteen) days.

Assigning a Judge to Temporarily Preside in Another Court

    If a judge is assigned to temporarily preside over a case in another court, the work assigned shall be that of a court of the same level as the court in which the judge was working.

Circumstances under which a Judge may be Assigned to Temporarily Preside in Another Court

    A judge may be temporarily assigned to preside in another court if the court to which the work is assigned is not functioning at a sufficient capacity, or if there are difficulties in providing services from that court, or if the judges working in that court are prohibited from attending work, or if there are other reasons that may delay or halt the work of the court.

Salary of a Judge Temporarily Assigned to Preside in another Court

    (a) In the event that a judge of a court is assigned to temporarily preside in another court, if the salary of a judge in the court to which the work is assigned is higher than the original salary of the judge assuming the work, a salary equal to that of a judge in the court to which he or she is assigned shall be paid to that judge for that period.
    (b) In addition to the salary specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the Judicial Service Commission may determine other benefits and services to be provided to a judge assigned to preside in another court.

Standards for Assigning Work

    (a) The court shall provide each judge with a schedule that allows for the estimation of the type and weight of work to be assigned during the year.
    (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, a judge's work schedule may be changed due to the new appointment of a judge, or the long-term absence of a judge from court, or taking of leave, or a vacancy in a judge's position.
    (c) Cases shall be assigned to a judge in a specific order determined by the court, without regard to the legal points of a case submitted to the court or the nature of the parties involved in the case. The standards for assigning cases in this manner shall be stated in the court's administrative regulations.
    (d) If the workload assigned to a judge is excessive, or if there is a legal impediment to him or her hearing the case, the order of assigning work mentioned in this Article may be changed.
    (e) Unless otherwise specified in this Act, a case assigned to a judge may be withdrawn only if that judge is unable to come to court for a long period, or to uphold a procedural requirement of the trial.

Dissatisfaction with the manner of Work Assignment

    If a judge is dissatisfied with the annual work schedule, or due to a change in the type of work, or a change in the order of assigning cases, or the withdrawal of an assigned case, he or she may submit a complaint to the Judicial Service Commission within 7 (seven) days. The decision of the Commission on such a matter shall be final.

Reporting on the Progress of a Case

    (a) If a decision has not been made in a case within 6 (six) months from the day it was assigned to a judge, the chief judge of the court shall be informed of this with reasons. And information regarding the progress of the case shall be given to the chief judge at least once a month.
    (b) The chief judges of the courts shall provide information to the Judicial Council, according to a specific established procedure, about the extent to which action is being taken regarding cases such as those mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article.

Performance Appraisal of Judges

    (a) To grant promotions to judges, the Judicial Service Commission shall appraise the performance of judges at least once every two years. The performance of judges shall be appraised by grading them as follows.
    (1) Very Capable;
    (2) Above Average Capability;
    (3) Average Capability;
    (4) Below Average Capability.
    (b) The result obtained from appraising the judge's performance as per subsection (a) of this Article shall be included in the judge's information file. And a copy of the judge's performance report shall be given to that judge.
    (c) If a judge receives a "Below Average" result in two consecutive performance appraisals, the Judicial Service Commission may, based on the report provided by the committee that conducted the performance appraisal, decide to send a proposal to the People's Majlis to retire that judge from service or to remove him or her from the position of a judge in order to transfer him or her to another position in the judicial sector, other than a judicial post.

Submitting a Complaint regarding the Performance Appraisal Report

    (a) If there is a complaint regarding a judge's performance appraisal report as mentioned in Article 59 of this Act, the judge may make that complaint to the Judicial Service Commission within 30 (thirty) days.
    (b) The Judicial Service Commission shall decide the matter after reviewing all documents related to the complaint submitted by a judge as per subsection (a) of this Article and hearing the judge's account. The decision made by the Judicial Service Commission in this manner shall be the final decision in determining the performance level of the judge.

Granting Promotions to Judges

    (a) Promotions shall be granted to judges based on the level of performance, skill, and capability demonstrated in that position, taking seniority in the position as a basis.
    (b) The period mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be calculated from the date of appointment to the judicial position.
    (c) The promotions mentioned in this Article include appointment as a chief judge or chief magistrate of a court, transfer from one court to another with a promotion, and grade increases.
    (d) A judge may be promoted if the result of the latest appraisal of performance and capability in that position is at least "Above Average Capability" as per paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of Article 59 of this Act.
    (e) The principle mentioned in subsection (d) of this Article shall be applied in granting promotions to judges starting 1 (one) year after this Act comes into effect.

Formulating Regulations for Appraising the Performance and Capability of Judges

    The Judicial Service Commission shall establish, by regulation, the technical standards and principles necessary for appraising the performance and capability of judges, as mentioned in Article 59 of this Act.

Dissatisfaction with a Decision to Grant a Promotion

    (a) If a judge is dissatisfied with a decision by the Judicial Service Commission to grant or not to grant a promotion, that judge shall have the right to submit a complaint.
    (b) If a complaint as per subsection (a) of this Article is submitted, the Judicial Service Commission may establish an independent committee to review and decide on the matter of the complaint.
    (c) The Judicial Service Commission shall formulate a regulation regarding the procedures for reviewing complaints as specified in this Article.

Annual Leave

    Every judge, upon completion of one year after assuming office, shall be granted at least 30 (thirty) days of leave with pay each year as annual leave.

Maternity or Paternity Leave

64-1. (a) Every judge has the right to receive leave in connection with childbirth or the birth of a child.
(b) As the leave mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article, female judges shall be entitled to 6 (six) months of leave.
(c) As the leave mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article, male judges shall be entitled to 1 (one) month of leave.
(d) The leave mentioned in subsections (b) and (c) of this Article is leave granted with pay.
(e) In addition to the leave mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article, judges are entitled to receive other leave provided under Law No. 2/2008 (Employment Act) in connection with pregnancy or childbirth.

Other Leave and Sick Leave

    Apart from the 30 (thirty) days of annual leave a judge is entitled to per year, the granting of other leave and sick leave shall be in accordance with Law No. 2/2008 (Employment Act).

Long-term Leave for Health Reasons

    (a) If a judge requests long-term leave for a health reason, accompanied by a doctor's certificate, leave of no more than 1 (one) year may be granted with half of the salary and benefits.
    (b) If an extension of the period specified in subsection (a) of this Article is requested, this leave may be extended for another 1 (one) year without salary and benefits.
    (c) If, after the leaves mentioned in this Article, the judge is unable to return to work, or if it is certified by a decision of a relevant special medical authority that he or she is unable to remain in employment due to a health reason, he or she may be retired from service.

Declaration of Income, Assets, and Finances

    Every judge shall, once every year, declare his or her assets and financial accounts, as well as income and debts, and submit a statement prepared in a format determined by the Judicial Service Commission to the Judicial Service Commission.

Judicial Assistants

    (a) When necessary, judicial assistants may be appointed to each lower court as provided in this Act. The judges of the respective court shall provide the necessary training to the assistants appointed in this manner and assign work in accordance with the law.
    (b) Judicial assistants must be persons who are at least 21 years of age and who have fulfilled the qualifications required for judges, except for the requirement of being 25 years of age.
    (c) Persons shall be appointed to the position of judicial assistant by the Judicial Service Commission upon the proposal of the court.
    (d) The first year of the position of judicial assistant shall be considered a probationary period. And this period may be extended for an additional 1 (one) year.
    (e) A person appointed as a judicial assistant shall, as directed by a judge of the court, perform the following responsibilities.
    (1) To assist judges in accepting cases submitted to the court and in conducting the cases;
    (2) To make the necessary preparations before submitting requests for enforcement to the judge hearing the case;
    (3) To verify the documents and items necessary for the enforcement of a judgment;
    (4) To identify and confirm the persons involved in the case;
    (5) In addition, to carry out all tasks assigned by the chief judge in connection with the work of the court.
    (f) The distribution of work among judicial assistants shall be determined by the chief judge of the court.
    (g) A judicial assistant shall be removed from the position by the Judicial Service Commission.
    (h) If a judicial assistant fulfills the qualifications for the position of a judge, he or she shall be given priority in the appointment to a judicial position.

Power to make regulations under this Act

    (a) In matters not specifically determined in this Act or any other law, regulations regarding the responsibilities and duties of judges shall be made by the Judicial Service Commission.
    (b) Regulations concerning the Judicial Council shall be made by the Judicial Council.

Date of Commencement of this Act

    This Act shall come into force upon its passage by the People's Majlis and ratification by the President of the Republic.

Definitions

    Unless the context in which the term is used implies otherwise, the following words shall be interpreted as follows.
    (a) "Retirement" refers to the removal from employment with a determined benefit upon reaching the age of 70, the voluntary departure from employment with a determined benefit upon personal request, and the removal from employment with a determined benefit due to inability to perform job responsibilities for a health reason.
    (b) "Salary" refers to the salary of judges passed by the People's Majlis in accordance with this Act.
    (c) "Benefit" refers to other financial benefits received from the state in addition to a judge's salary, and other services received by virtue of the position.
    (d) "Judicial Council" refers to the council established under a relevant law, whose jurisdiction is specified in that law.
    (e) "Constitution" refers to the Constitution of the Republic of the Maldives which came into effect on 7 August 2008.
    (f) "Supreme Court" refers to the court established under the name of the Supreme Court under Article 141 of the Constitution.
    (g) "High Court" refers to the court established under the name of the High Court under Article 141 of the Constitution.
    (h) "Lower Court" refers to the courts established by an Act passed by the People's Majlis, under various names and with different jurisdictions, as specified in Article 141 of the Constitution.
    (i) "Commission" refers to the Judicial Service Commission established under Law No. 10/2008 (Judicial Service Commission Act).
