Land Transport Act

Introduction

1.
This Act is the law concerning all matters related to the land transport system in the Maldives, including the registration and operation of land vehicles, vehicle safety and security, land travel, the safety and security of land transport, the registration of places providing land transport services, the provision of land transport services, and other related matters.

Name

2.
This Act shall be cited as the "Land Transport Act".

Implementation of the Act and Formulation of Regulations

3.
(a) This Act shall be implemented, and all necessary regulations for its implementation shall be made and enforced by the Ministry designated by the government at the time to oversee land transport matters.
(b) Hereinafter in this Act, "the Ministry" refers to the Ministry specified in subsection (a) of this section.
(c) The Ministry, or a party appointed by the Ministry for the purpose, shall find ways to develop all aspects of land transport in the Maldives, plan the land transport system, and manage and maintain all other matters related to land transport.
(d) If a power or authority granted to the Ministry under this Act is delegated to another party, it must be publicly announced and declared.

Road Safety Council

3-1
(a) To advise the Ministry regarding the enforcement of this Act, a council named the "Road Safety Council" shall be formed, comprising one (1) member from each of the following authorities:
1. The government ministry responsible for determining policies related to land transport;
2. The government ministry responsible for determining policies related to road construction and building;
3. Maldives Transport Authority;
4. Maldives Police Service;
5. Attorney General's Office;
6. Local Government Authority; and
7. The government ministry responsible for formulating and implementing environmental policies.

(b) The Ministry shall seek the advice and consultation of the Road Safety Council when determining policies related to land transport.
(c) The Road Safety Council has the authority to seek the advice and guidance of experts on matters under its consultation.
(d) When the Road Safety Council makes decisions regarding the land transport system of an island, city, or any other area, it must consult with the authority providing municipal services for that island, city, or area.
(e) For the purpose of subsection (d) of this section, the authority providing municipal services, in relation to an island or city, shall be the council to which that island or city belongs. And in relation to an area where none of these have jurisdiction, it shall be the party responsible for managing the administrative and municipal affairs of that area.

Deposit of Money

4.
(a) With the commencement of this Act, all fines, fees, and any other income received under this Act shall be promptly deposited into the Consolidated Revenue Account in accordance with Law No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act).
(b) The Maldives Inland Revenue Authority or a party designated by law shall take action against those who fail to pay fines and fees payable under this Act and shall undertake all matters related to recovering money owed to the state.

Authority to Determine Rules and Traffic Signs for Operating Vehicles on Public Roads

5.
(a) The Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry has the authority under this Act to install, remove, and change traffic lights on public roads.
(b) The Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry has the authority under this Act to determine the speed for driving vehicles on public roads and to install and change signs indicating the driving speed.
(c) The Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry has the power under this Act to determine and abolish one-way public roads, create roundabouts, and install and remove speed breakers, and the power to make changes to such matters.
(d) The Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry shall determine and manage the parking and stopping of land vehicles on public roads, places where stopping is required and prohibited, times when stopping or parking is prohibited, places, areas, and times when certain types of vehicles are prohibited from entering or parking, roads and areas where land vehicles are prohibited from entering, establish traffic signs indicating the condition of roads, determine areas and hours for loading and unloading goods onto land vehicles, and determine matters that could further strengthen the land transport system.

Compliance with Traffic Signs

6.
(a) It is prohibited to drive or transport a land vehicle in a manner that contravenes the traffic signs established by the Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry for the operation of the land transport system in the Maldives.
(b) It is prohibited to drive against the designated direction on a one-way street and to drive in violation of a traffic light. The penalty for a person who commits such an act is a fine of MVR 500/- (five hundred) for the first offense, a fine of MVR 1,000/- (one thousand) for the second offense, and a fine of MVR 1,500/- (one thousand five hundred) for each subsequent offense.
(c) Except for the matters specified in subsection (b) of this section, the penalty for a person who acts in contravention of the traffic signs within the land transport system is a fine of MVR 250/- (two hundred and fifty) for the first offense, a fine of MVR 500/- (five hundred) for the second offense, and a fine of MVR 750/- (seven hundred and fifty) for each subsequent offense.

Illegal Parking

7.
(a) It is prohibited to park a land vehicle in contravention of the traffic signs established by the Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry for the operation of the land transport system in the Maldives.
(b) The Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry has the authority to place a parking violation sticker on a vehicle parked illegally, in accordance with the regulations made under this Act. For each time a parking violation sticker is placed on a vehicle under this section, the owner of the vehicle shall be fined MVR 250/- (two hundred and fifty).[1]
(c) In addition to fining the owner of the vehicle under subsection (b) of this section for illegally parking a land vehicle, the Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry has the authority to deduct points from the license of the person who illegally parked the vehicle. And except for the special vehicles of the parties specified in Article 8 (b) of this Act, the Maldives Police Service has the authority to remove other vehicles from that place and take them to a place designated by the Maldives Police Service. Such vehicles shall be dealt with in accordance with Article 68-1 of this Act.

Vehicles Parked on the Road for an Extended Period

8.
(a) Even in a place designated for parking by the Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry for the operation of the land transport system, a land vehicle can be kept continuously for a maximum period of 7 (seven) days.
(b) Upon the expiration of the period specified in subsection (a) of this section, the Maldives Police Service has the authority to remove such a vehicle from that place and take it to a place designated by the Maldives Police Service.
(c) Vehicles removed under subsection (b) of this section shall be dealt with in accordance with Article 68-1 of this Act.
(d) Special land vehicles used by persons with special needs are exempted from this article.

Complaints Regarding Fines and Filing Lawsuits to Recover Fines

9.
(a) The Ministry shall establish a system for submitting complaints to the Ministry regarding fines imposed under this Act within 90 (ninety) days from the commencement of this Act.
(b) The Ministry has the authority to review complaints submitted under the complaint submission system established in accordance with subsection (a) of this section and to review the imposition of the fine.
(c) After reviewing the imposition of the fine in accordance with subsection (b) of this section, the Ministry has the authority to annul the fine if it needs to be annulled.
(d) The system for submitting complaints mentioned in subsection (a) of this section, the circumstances under which complaints submitted through the system will be reviewed, and the principles for doing so fairly shall be stated in the regulations made under this Act.
(e) If any person fails to pay a fine imposed under this Act, that money shall be a civil debt owed by that person to the state. The Maldives Inland Revenue Authority has the power to file a lawsuit to recover that money.
(f) Notwithstanding subsection (e) of this section, the Maldives Inland Revenue Authority has the power to request a court order to require a person whose fines under this Act exceed MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) to perform a community service, work, or service instead of the fine.
(g) The regulation regarding the enforcement of a court order for community service, work, or service as stated in subsection (f) of this section shall be formulated by the Ministry and published in the Government Gazette within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act.

Safety and Speed Limit

10.
(a) The Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry has the authority under this Act to determine and change the maximum permitted speed for driving land vehicles in different areas and on different roads in the Maldives. In this regard, a sign indicating the permitted speed limit for different roads and areas shall be placed in a clearly visible manner on that road or in that area.
(b) On roads or in areas where driving a land vehicle is permitted at a speed higher than a certain standard as per the regulations made by the Ministry for that purpose, land vehicles with more than two wheels must be driven with seat belts fastened.
(c) On roads or in areas where driving a land vehicle is permitted at a speed higher than a certain standard as per the regulations made by the Ministry for that purpose, two-wheeled land vehicles must be driven with a helmet on.
(d) Subsections (b) and (c) of this section shall come into force within 12 (twelve) months from the date of ratification of this Act.
(e) It is prohibited for any person to drive a land vehicle in violation of the speed limit prescribed in this Act and the regulations made hereunder.
(f) The penalty for a person who violates subsection (e) of this article is:
1. For the first offense, a fine of MVR 500/- (five hundred) and to be advised on the consequences of repeating the act.
2. For the second offense, a fine of MVR 750/- (seven hundred and fifty) and the suspension of the driving license of the person who drove the vehicle for 48 (forty-eight) hours. And if the license needs to be suspended for more than 48 (forty-eight) hours, the person's license shall be suspended under a court order.
3. For each subsequent offense, a fine of MVR 1,000/- (one thousand) and the vehicle driven by that person shall be taken under the custody of the Maldives Police Service for a period of 15 (fifteen) days.
(g) If a vehicle is impounded under subsection (f) of this article, that vehicle shall be dealt with in accordance with Article 68-1 of this Act.

Rules for Using the Road When Driving a Land Vehicle

11.
(a) In the Maldives, land vehicles shall be driven on the left side of the road.[2]
(b) When more than one vehicle is driving alongside each other on the same road or in the same lane, they shall not be driven in a way that obstructs the vehicles traveling behind. And under no circumstances shall they be driven in a manner that endangers the safety of vehicles and people on the road.
(c) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of this section, this article does not prevent two vehicles from being abreast when overtaking another vehicle in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder, if there is insufficient space to overtake.
(d) On roads with a separate lane designated for a specific type of vehicle, it is prohibited to drive in any lane other than the one designated for that vehicle. Also, when driving in the designated lane, the left side of the lane must be used.
(e) Notwithstanding subsection (d) of this section, if there is insufficient space in the lane being driven in, this article does not prevent the use of the adjacent lane to overtake a vehicle in front, provided there is an opportunity to do so safely by giving way to vehicles traveling in the adjacent lane.

Roadworthiness

12.
(a) The roadworthiness of newly registered vehicles, or among registered land vehicles, of the types specified by the Ministry, shall be checked within the periods specified by the Ministry.
(b) If the Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry for that purpose observes that a land vehicle's roadworthiness is not complete, the Ministry has the power to invalidate the roadworthiness of such a vehicle.
(c) The Ministry shall determine the procedure for conducting roadworthiness tests, issuing certificates, appointing persons for such work, determining the standards of such persons, and determining the fee to be charged for conducting roadworthiness tests. The fee determined by the Ministry for conducting roadworthiness tests shall not exceed 10% of the annual fee of that vehicle.
(d) The roadworthiness of vehicles for which the period granted for roadworthiness has expired and has not been renewed as specified in subsection (a) of this section shall be void. It is prohibited to drive or use such a vehicle without renewing its roadworthiness. A vehicle whose roadworthiness has been invalidated shall be moved from one place to another under a permit issued by the Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry.

Driving and Use

13.
(a) In the Maldives, an engine-powered land vehicle shall be driven or used only after being registered in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.
(b) A vehicle that does not require registration shall be driven or used within the land transport system in accordance with the manner prescribed by the Ministry for the use of such non-registrable vehicles within the system.
(c) Among the vehicles registered under subsection (a) of this section, land vehicles that do not require oil as a source of energy are exempted from registration fees.

Registrar of Land Vehicles

14.
To maintain the registry of land vehicles mentioned in this Act, make additions and deletions, and maintain the mortgage section, the Ministry shall appoint a Registrar of Land Vehicles and arrange for the work related to this to be carried out.

Register of Engine-Powered Land Vehicles

15.
(a) A register of all types of engine-powered land vehicles shall be established, and the Registrar of Land Vehicles shall record and maintain information about those vehicles. Mortgaged vehicles shall be noted in this register.
(b) A register of engine-powered land vehicles driven in each island, city, or area of the Maldives shall be established and maintained as prescribed by the Ministry. This register shall clearly maintain the information of engine-powered land vehicles permanently registered to that island, city, or area, and the information of engine-powered land vehicles that have a temporary permit to be driven in that island, city, or area, other than the place of registration.
(c) An addition or deletion to the information contained in the register specified in subsection (b) of this section shall be made as prescribed by the Ministry. The register mentioned in this article shall be established and completed within 6 (six) months of the gazetting of this amendment.
(d) If a vehicle stated in this register as being mortgaged is given or sold, the Registrar must be notified of this in writing.
(e) If an engine-powered land vehicle is mortgaged, the party mortgaging the vehicle must inform the Registrar or a person designated by the Registrar.

Registration of Land Vehicles

16.
A land vehicle shall be registered upon submission of a request to the Registrar or a person designated by the Registrar, after examining all necessary matters related to the vehicle, and upon payment of the annual fee payable under Article 28 of this Act and the prescribed administrative service charge, if the vehicle is one for which an annual fee is payable.

Registration of Places and Persons

17.
(a) A vehicle used for providing passenger and goods transport services within the land transport system shall provide such service only after being registered as prescribed by the Ministry.
(b) Any place that operates to provide a service included in the land transport system shall be operated only after being registered as prescribed by the Ministry.
(c) Parties providing services within the land transport system shall be active in providing services only after being registered with a party designated by the Ministry under a regulation made by the Ministry.
(d) If a place of service included in the land transport system of the Maldives violates this Act and the regulations made hereunder, the penalty for such an offense is a fine of MVR 1,000/- (one thousand) for the first offense, a fine of MVR 1,500/- (one thousand five hundred) for the second offense, a fine of MVR 2,000/- (two thousand) for the third offense, and if this Act is violated thereafter, the Ministry has the authority to cancel and annul the registration of that place.

Temporary Registration

18.
(a) Land vehicles imported for a specific task or tasks, to be returned from the country, shall be used only after being temporarily registered with the Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry for the purpose of carrying out that task or tasks.
(b) Temporarily registered land vehicles shall be used only for the task for which the vehicle was registered, in the area designated for that purpose, and for the specified period.
(c) The registration of a temporarily registered land vehicle shall be cancelled upon completion of the task for which the vehicle was registered.
(d) A temporarily registered land vehicle shall be returned from the Maldives only after the cancellation of its registration.
(e) Within 90 (ninety) days from the date of commencement of this Act, all vehicles currently being used in the Maldives without registration must be registered in accordance with this article. And an opportunity shall be given to change the registration of such registered vehicles to a temporary registration as prescribed by the Ministry.

Registration of Land Vehicles in the Name of Minors and Foreigners

19.
(a) A land vehicle can be registered in the name of a minor under the age of 18 in the Gregorian calendar only after the Ministry receives a written statement from the child's legal guardian or custodian agreeing to bear all responsibilities under this Act.
(b) A land vehicle can be registered in the name of a foreigner only after the Ministry receives a written statement from a Maldivian citizen who is over 18 years of age in the Gregorian calendar, agreeing to bear all responsibilities under this Act on behalf of that foreigner.

Moving from One Place to Another

20.
A land vehicle that requires registration may be used within the land transport system without registration only for the purpose of moving it from one place to another, after obtaining a permit from the Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry under a regulation made for that purpose. A vehicle used in this manner must have a sign prescribed by the Ministry for this purpose affixed to it. And it is prohibited to drive, use, or park a vehicle that is moved in this way within the land transport system without registration after it has been moved.

Exempted Land Vehicles

21.
(a) Military vehicles of the Maldives National Defence Force are exempted from this Act. Also, vehicles designed for both military and other purposes may be exempted from this Act when driven within the land transport system for military purposes.
(b) The Ministry has the authority to exempt from this Act vehicles that are specialized for use and operation in areas designated for specific purposes. Even if a vehicle generally used for transporting people and goods is used in such an area, it will not be exempted from this Act.
(c) Even if it is a vehicle specialized for a specific purpose as mentioned in subsection (b) of this article, that vehicle must be used within the land transport system in accordance with this Act.
(d) Except for the vehicles specified in subsection (a) of this article, vehicles used for public safety and security, and prepared for that purpose, are exempted from this Act when driven for such a purpose. A vehicle exempted in this manner must have a sign designated by the Ministry for this purpose affixed to it when driven for that purpose.

Vehicles Designated for Emergency Response with Sirens

22.
(a) A vehicle designated for emergency response with a siren may be driven against the flow of traffic on one-way streets and without stopping at traffic lights when responding to an emergency with the siren on. It may also be driven faster than the prescribed speed limit.
(b) Other vehicles on the road and people using the road must give way to facilitate the easy passage of vehicles designated for emergency response with sirens. It is prohibited to obstruct a vehicle designated for emergency response with a siren.
(c) It is prohibited to use the emergency lights and sounds used in the vehicles specified in subsection (a) of this article in other vehicles.
(d) For the purpose of this article, "a vehicle designated for emergency response with a siren" refers to ambulances, land vehicles of security forces, and other such vehicles designated for use in health, security, or other emergency situations, used for public safety and security.

Numbering and Marking

23.
(a) Every vehicle registered under this Act must have a number assigned by the Ministry, affixed in accordance with a prescribed format.
(b) The official vehicles of the President of the Republic, the Vice President of the Republic, the Speaker of the People's Majlis, and the Chief Justice shall use the state insignia instead of a registration number. The vehicles designated for foreign dignitaries visiting the Maldives, including heads of state and dignitaries of equivalent rank, shall also use the state insignia of the Maldives instead of a registration number.
(c) For parties wishing to affix a specific number instead of the number assigned by the Ministry under subsection (a) of this section, that number may be affixed under the regulations made under this Act. When using that number, a document indicating this must be in the vehicle or with the person driving the vehicle. The price of the number used in this way shall be determined by the Ministry.
(d) A sample of how the number mentioned in subsection (a) of this article should be designed shall be determined and published by the Ministry. The sample designed and published in this way must clearly show the dimensions of the border, letters, and numbers. The material for the number plate, how to include information digitally if included, and all related matters shall be determined in the Land Vehicle Registration Regulation made under this Act.

Determining the Number of Vehicles to be Used and the Period of Use

24.
(a) The council of a particular island or city shall determine the number of land vehicles to be registered and the period for which the vehicles can be used in that island or city. The number of vehicles and the period of use shall be determined separately for each such place.
(b) The Ministry shall determine the number of land vehicles to be registered and the period for which the vehicles can be used in an area or island allocated for industrial purposes.
(c) The council of a particular island or city has the authority to determine the number of land vehicles to be registered in the name of a person, a business, a company, or a state institution in that island or city.
(d) When determining the number or period of use of vehicles as per subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this article, and when determining the number of vehicles that can be registered in the name of a particular person or entity, the public must be informed of such a determination by an announcement at least 6 (six) months before the determination is enforced.

Change of Ownership

25.
(a) Within a maximum of 20 (twenty) days of a request for a change of ownership of a land vehicle being submitted to the Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry after fulfilling the requirements for changing the registration, the ownership of that vehicle must be changed. In this regard, the registration of the vehicle shall not be changed until any money owed to the government or another party in relation to that vehicle up to the date of the change of ownership has been paid and settled.
(b) If any land vehicle is sold or given away, it is prohibited to drive or use it without changing the ownership within a maximum of 6 (six) months. If a land vehicle commits a violation without a change of ownership, the registered owner shall be responsible for it.
(c) If a registered vehicle is to be given or sold to another party, it shall be done by submitting the matter to the Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry, under a regulation established for that purpose.
(d) If the owner of a registered vehicle dies, the ownership of that vehicle shall be changed based on a court decision, or as agreed upon and submitted by the heirs of that person. Until a court designates a specific person as the owner of the vehicle, the heirs of that person shall be considered the owners of the vehicle.
(e) All responsibilities related to a vehicle shall be borne by the person registered as the owner of the vehicle at the time, or the person who has agreed to bear all responsibilities related to that vehicle under Article 19 of this Act.

Renewal of Registration

26.
A new registration shall be issued, in case of loss or damage to the registration, or for any other reason, upon submission of a request by the owner of the vehicle to the Ministry, after making arrangements for the payment of any money owed to the government or another party in relation to that vehicle, and under a regulation made for that purpose.

Cancellation of Registration

27.
(a) When the owner of a vehicle requests the cancellation of the vehicle's registration, the registration must be cancelled. The registration shall be cancelled upon payment of any money due in relation to that vehicle up to that date.
(b) If a vehicle with a cancelled registration is re-registered, its annual fee shall be paid from the month of re-registration until the end of the year.
(c) If the registration is cancelled after the annual fee has been paid, the total amount of money for the remaining part of the year, excluding the current month, from the annual fee paid for that year, shall be returned to the owner of the vehicle.
(d) A new registration for a vehicle with a cancelled registration shall be issued after payment of the annual fee, in accordance with Article 16 of this Act.
(e) It is prohibited to use a vehicle with a cancelled registration within the land transport system without renewing the registration. If a vehicle with a cancelled registration for any reason is used within the land transport system without re-registering it or obtaining the necessary permit for it, the penalty for this is a fine of MVR 750/- (seven hundred and fifty) for the person who used the vehicle, and a fine of MVR 750/- (seven hundred and fifty) for the owner of the vehicle.

Annual Fee

28.
(a) Registered land vehicles that are not exempted under this Act shall pay an annual fee at least once every 12 (twelve) months as per the schedule of this Act.
(b) Special land vehicles used by persons with special needs are exempted from paying the annual fee mentioned in subsection (a) of this article.
(c) The annual fee for land vehicles for which an annual fee is prescribed under this Act shall be paid to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, or to a party designated by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, every Gregorian year before the end of the month in which the vehicle was registered. And when registering the vehicle, the fee for 12 (twelve) months in advance from the month of registration must be paid at once. When paying the fee, a part of a month shall be considered a full month.
(d) The Ministry shall determine and maintain the standards to be set for levying an annual fee on land vehicles. If a vehicle falls under two standards, the fee shall be determined based on the higher of the two standards.
(e) Arrangements shall be made for parties wishing to pay the fee for more than 1 (one) year.
(f) It is prohibited to use any vehicle for which an annual fee is payable within the land transport system without paying the fee after the due date has passed.
(g) If a land vehicle for which an annual fee is payable is used within the land transport system without paying the annual fee after it has become due, the prescribed penalty is a fine of MVR 750/- (seven hundred and fifty) for the person who drove or used such a vehicle. If a vehicle for which the annual fee has not been paid for 6 (six) months is used within the land transport system, in addition to fining the user MVR 750/- (seven hundred and fifty), the owner of the vehicle shall be fined MVR 750/- (seven hundred and fifty). The annual fee will be accepted only after any fines payable by the vehicle and its owner under this Act have been paid and settled.

Driving Without Registration and Driving in Violation of Regulations

29.
(a) The penalty for a person who violates the regulation made by the Ministry for affixing the number plate issued for a land vehicle, or drives with the number plate damaged to the point of being illegible, and for a person who provides a service without the sign issued for affixing on a vehicle or at a service-providing place within the land transport system, or for the person who drove the vehicle is:
1. The penalty for the person who drove the vehicle is a fine of MVR 500/- (five hundred) for the first offense, a fine of MVR 750/- (seven hundred and fifty) for the second offense, and a fine of MVR 1,000/- (one thousand) for each subsequent offense.
2. The penalty for the service provider is a fine of MVR 1,000/- (one thousand) for the first offense, a fine of MVR 1,500/- (one thousand five hundred) for the second offense, and a fine of MVR 2,000/- (two thousand) for each subsequent offense.
(b) It is prohibited to affix any number on a vehicle other than the registration number issued for it by the Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry, to affix a registration number on an unregistered land vehicle in violation of this Act, and to alter the engine number or chassis number of a land vehicle without the permission of the Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry. The penalty for a person who commits such an act is:
1. The person driving such a vehicle at the time shall be fined MVR 1,000/- (one thousand).
2. If such an act is proven, the person who committed it shall be fined MVR 10,000/- (ten thousand), and if the act was committed by a business, the business license of that place shall be suspended for a period of 1 (one) year.
(c) The procedures for identifying the owner of a vehicle brought under the custody of the Maldives Police Service under subsection (b) of this section, correcting the altered numbers on the vehicle, returning the vehicle to its owner, the period for which the vehicle can be kept under police custody, and other procedures to be followed in relation to such vehicles shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Driving Schools and Driving Instructors

30.
(a) The Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry shall issue licenses to parties wishing to operate driving schools and become driving instructors under this Act.
(b) The Ministry shall determine and publish a regulation stating the standards and principles for operating driving schools and for acting as driving instructors. That regulation shall determine the standards of instructors of driving schools and general instructors, and the maximum amounts that can be charged as fees for teaching driving. The regulation shall also include the standards and methods for examining drivers for different categories of vehicles.
(c) When parties wishing to operate a driving school or become a driving instructor apply in accordance with the regulation made under this Act, if the requirements stipulated in that regulation for operating a driving school or acting as a driving instructor are met, a license shall be issued to those parties within a maximum of 15 (fifteen) days.
(d) A list of driving schools and driving instructors licensed under this Act shall be updated, maintained, and publicly published by the Ministry.

Learning to Drive

32.
(a) To learn to drive a land vehicle, one must drive with a sign, made in accordance with a sample prescribed by the Ministry, affixed to the front and rear of the vehicle. A person who holds a license for that class of vehicle and has a permit from the Ministry to be an instructor must be in the vehicle with the learner. No more than two people shall be in a vehicle used for learning to drive.
(b) A land vehicle shall be driven for learning purposes in an area and at times designated by the Ministry for that purpose. The area, time, and speed for learning to drive a land vehicle shall be determined and regulations shall be made by the Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry.

Issuance of License

33.
(a) Engine-powered land vehicles shall be driven or operated only after passing an examination held under a regulation prescribed by the Ministry and obtaining a license to drive or operate such a vehicle.
(b) A license to drive or operate a land vehicle shall be issued to persons who have completed 18 years of age in the Gregorian calendar.
(c) A person holding a valid license issued by a country recognized by the Ministry may drive a land vehicle in the Maldives for 90 (ninety) days without obtaining an additional license under this Act, as long as that license is valid. For the purpose of this article, the Ministry shall publish a list of countries whose licenses are recognized by the Ministry.
(d) The Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry has the authority to issue a permanent license to a person holding a valid license issued by a country included in the list published by the Ministry under subsection (c) of this article, without having to take the examination required under subsection (a) of this article, in accordance with the principles stated in the regulations made under this Act.
(e) The types of licenses for driving a land vehicle, their validity period, the area in which it can be driven, and the license fee shall be determined by the Ministry.

Issuing Licenses for Public Transport Services

34.
(a) In the Maldives, vehicles such as buses and vans for public transport services can be operated only by parties licensed by the Ministry for that purpose.
(b) When the Ministry announces a call for applications to provide public transport services, interested parties must submit a proposal to the Ministry.
(c) The types of vehicles that can be operated in public transport, the requirements that those vehicles must meet, the criteria that the Ministry will consider when issuing a license for that service, and the matters that must be included in the proposal to be submitted by the parties wishing to provide the service shall be determined under a regulation made by the Ministry for that purpose.

Determining Areas for Bus Services as Public Transport

35.
(a) In the Maldives, bus services as public transport shall be provided only in areas authorized in writing by the Ministry. In such areas, a license for the bus service shall be issued to the service provider by the party authorized by the Ministry to undertake matters related to providing bus services in that area, and which issues licenses for providing the service.
(b) If an area in the Maldives is to be designated as an area for providing bus services as public transport, the responsible administrative office of that area shall apply to the Ministry for a permit for that purpose.

Determining Bus Routes

36.
(a) In an area where bus services are provided as public transport, the bus routes shall be determined by the authority that issues the license for the service in that area, after consulting with the service provider and the party licensed to provide the service.
(b) The routes determined in accordance with subsection (a) of this article and any changes made to those routes shall be notified by the licensing authority to the service provider and the service recipient one (1) month before such changes take effect. The licensing authority shall notify the service provider in writing. The service recipient shall be notified by public announcement.
(c) The bus service schedule, fare, passenger capacity of the buses, bus routes, and the location of bus stops shall be written and displayed in the vehicle in a manner that is easily readable by the passengers.

Determining Bus Stops

37.
Bus stops for the public transport service shall be constructed on the roads by the responsible administrative office of that area. Such places shall be constructed to a suitable standard to shelter passengers from rain and sun and shall be illuminated at night.

Bus Safety Standards

38.
Vehicles used for providing bus services must meet the safety standards determined by the Ministry.

Cessation of Bus Service

39.
If a party licensed to provide bus services wishes to cease this service, it must submit a written request to the Ministry 90 (ninety) days before ceasing the service.

School Children Boarding Buses

40.
School children may board buses providing public transport services. School children shall be boarded on such buses in accordance with a regulation prescribed by the Ministry.

Persons with Special Needs Receiving Bus Services

41.
Assistance must be provided to persons with special needs who receive bus services for boarding, alighting, and seating on the bus.

Fare for Bus Service

42.
The fare for the bus service shall be determined by the licensing authority after consulting with the service provider.

Conduct of Bus Drivers and Assistants

43.
The conduct and requirements for drivers and assistants of buses operating as public transport shall be determined under a regulation made by the Ministry.

Responsibilities of the Owner of a Public Transport Service Vehicle

44.
(a) The owner, driver, and assistant of vehicles licensed under this Act must prioritize the safety and security of passengers in all circumstances.
(b) The employees on board public transport service vehicles must be persons who meet the requirements prescribed by the Ministry.

Knowing the Owner of a Vehicle Used for Public Transport Service

45.
In every vehicle used for providing public transport services, the name and address of the owner of that vehicle must be written and displayed in a manner visible to passengers, in accordance with a procedure prescribed by the Ministry.

Vehicles Used in Public Transport Service

46.
(a) The Ministry shall publicly announce the parties authorized to provide public transport services in the Maldives.
(b) Vehicles used in public transport services in the Maldives shall be used under a license issued by the Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry, as stated in this Act.
(c) The conditions and terms of the license for driving all such vehicles shall be formulated and publicly announced by the Ministry.
(d) The license issued by the relevant authority for carrying the public shall be a license issued in addition to the registration of the vehicles.
(e) A license issued for the purpose of a public transport service may be changed by submitting a written request to the Registrar and paying the prescribed fee.
(f) The Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry has the power to determine the classification of public transport services, issue licenses, and determine the number of vehicles for which licenses will be issued. The matters determined in this way shall be publicly announced.

Action Against Parties Providing Bus Services in Violation of this Act

47.
(a) It is prohibited to provide bus services without the license specified in Article 35 (a) of this Act. The penalty for a party that commits such an offense is a fine of MVR 2,000/- (two thousand).
(b) Except for the violation of Article 35 (a) of this Act, the penalty for parties providing bus services in violation of this Act and the regulations made hereunder is a fine of MVR 500/- (five hundred) for the first offense, a fine of MVR 1,000/- (one thousand) for the second offense, and a fine of MVR 1,500/- (one thousand five hundred) for the third offense. And if such an offense is repeated more than three times, the bus service license of that party shall be revoked.

Providing Taxi Services

48.
(a) Taxi services in the Maldives shall be provided by taxi centers or private individuals who are registered and have obtained a license in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
(b) The standards of the vehicles used for providing taxi services, their safety measures, and the requirements for the parties providing such services shall be determined by the Ministry.
(c) A license as stated in subsection (a) of this article shall be issued upon application to the Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry, after examining all necessary matters concerning the party wishing to provide the service. A revenue stamp of MVR 100/- (one hundred) shall be affixed to the license issued in this manner.
(d) Upon application for a taxi service license as specified in subsection (c) of this article, if the requirements prescribed by the Ministry are met, the Ministry shall issue the taxi service license within a maximum of 14 (fourteen) days. If the requirements are not met, the reason shall be notified in writing to that party within that period.
(e) In vehicles operating as taxis, the license issued under subsection (b) of this article must be displayed in a manner easily visible to passengers boarding those taxis.
(f) Providing taxi services in violation of this Act is an offense. The penalty for a party committing such an offense is a fine of MVR 500/- (five hundred) for the first time, a fine of MVR 750/- (seven hundred and fifty) for the second time, and a fine of MVR 1,000/- (one thousand) for the third time. And if such an offense is repeated more than three times within a period of 1 (one) year, the Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry has the authority to revoke the taxi service license of that party, depending on the nature of the offense.
(g) The procedures, conditions, and standards for providing taxi services in the Maldives by private individuals without the involvement of a taxi center shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Private Hire Service

48-1
(a) Private hire services in the Maldives shall be provided by parties who are registered and have obtained a license in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
(b) The conditions for registering and issuing licenses for providing private hire services, and the standards and principles for providing the service shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Renewal of Taxi Service License

49.
The validity period of a license issued to provide taxi services is 5 (five) years. An application for renewal of the license must be submitted to the Ministry 3 (three) months before the expiry of the license.

Provision of Services by Councils

49-1
(a) Among the services to be provided by the Ministry under this Act, the services determined by the Ministry shall be provided at the atoll level, island level, or city level by the council to which that atoll, island, or city belongs, in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
(b) The services to be provided at the atoll level, island level, or city level as determined by the Ministry under subsection (a) of this section and the procedures related to the provision of those services shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.
(c) The Ministry and relevant authorities shall provide the necessary funds, resources, and assistance to the councils in relation to the services specified in subsection (a) of this article. The manner in which the necessary funds, resources, and assistance will be provided to the councils shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Prohibition of Tobacco Use in Public Transport Vehicles and Taxis

50.
It is prohibited to use tobacco in any public transport vehicle or taxi while it is being driven.

Police Inspection of Licenses, Land Vehicles, and Vehicle-Related Documents

51.
(a) A police officer, during their official duty hours, has the authority to stop any vehicle they see, inspect and check the vehicle and driving license, and check whether the documents related to the vehicle's registration and the stickers or documents indicating that the requirements stipulated by this Act and the regulations made under the authority of the Act are fulfilled. When the police inspect and check, the sticker or document indicating that the requirements stipulated by the law and regulations have been fulfilled must be affixed to the vehicle or be available for presentation.
(b) The police have the power to take action against those who violate this Act in accordance with the law.
(c) If a police officer, while not on official duty, sees any person acting in violation of this Act, they have the power to stop that person, show their police identification card, inspect and check the vehicle and driving license, check the documents related to the vehicle's registration and the stickers or documents indicating that the requirements stipulated by this Act and the regulations made under the authority of the Act are fulfilled, and take action.

Classification

52.
The Ministry has the authority under this Act to classify land vehicles as follows:
(a) Heavy vehicles;
(b) Light vehicles;
(c) Oil tankers;
(d) Gas carriers;
(e) Vehicles carrying various chemicals and dangerous goods;
(f) Waste disposal vehicles;
(g) Vehicles designed for carrying heavy goods;
(h) Articulated vehicles designed for carrying heavy goods;
(i) Vehicles specialized for carrying containers;
(j) Vehicles designed for carrying water;
(k) Vehicles designed for carrying food and refrigerated goods;
(l) Vehicles specialized for construction work:
1. Excavators;
2. Vehicles used for paving and road construction;
3. Cranes, forklifts, and other vehicles for loading and unloading goods;
4. Vehicles produced for various other tasks;
5. Self-propelled lifts and similar vehicles designed for accessing and working on tall buildings;
(m) Vehicles designed for live broadcasting of TV, radio, and other communication services;
(n) Land vehicles designed for conducting various technical research.

Formulating Standards and Principles for Classification and Grading

53.
The Ministry shall, under this Act, classify all such vehicles as mentioned in Article 52 of this Act, classify vehicles produced in the world and in the Maldives for this specific purpose, conduct roadworthiness tests for a specific period, grade vehicles carrying dangerous goods such as oil and gas according to international standards, grade vehicles carrying food according to health standards, grade waste-carrying vehicles to be carried in vehicles specialized for that purpose, and inspect, and make and enforce all regulations related to these matters, and determine the procedures for registration.

Vehicles Used for Waste Disposal

54.
(a) The Ministry has the power under this Act to determine the standard and type of vehicles used for waste disposal in the Maldives.
(b) Such vehicles shall not be used in a manner that inconveniences the public and other vehicles on the road, or in a way that allows waste to fall onto the road.

Driving and Parking in a Manner that Inconveniences Pedestrians and Placing Goods on the Road

55.
(a) It is prohibited to drive or park any type of land vehicle on a pavement or in a place or area within the land transport system designated for walking, except for prams specialized for carrying small children and wheelchairs driven solely by human power for people with special needs. It is also prohibited to place goods and items on the pavement in a way that obstructs pedestrians, and to place goods and items on the road in a way that obstructs moving vehicles. Placing goods or items on the road for a temporary purpose with a permit obtained from the Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry is exempted.
(b) If a person or people are crossing the road at a marked pedestrian crossing, or are about to cross the road, land vehicles must stop to give way to the people crossing the road. It is prohibited to drive without giving way to those crossing at a pedestrian crossing.

Using a Communication Device While Driving a Land Vehicle

56.
(a) It is prohibited for the person driving a land vehicle to use a mobile phone or any handheld communication device while driving.
(b) It is prohibited to drive with a headset on, while watching TV or a video or any other such thing using another device, and to drive while playing loud music or using a loudspeaker at a volume audible to others. This article does not prevent driving with music playing and a loudspeaker being used in connection with a special event with a permit obtained from the Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry.
(c) Radio sets and other communication devices used in taxis, and communication devices permitted by the Ministry, may be used in emergency response vehicles used for public safety and security and military vehicles, in a manner prescribed by the Ministry.

Prohibition of Tobacco Use While Driving a Land Vehicle

57.
It is prohibited for the driver and any passenger in a land vehicle to use tobacco while the vehicle is being driven.

Carrying Children on Bicycles and More Than One Person Riding a Bicycle

58.
Except for driving with a small child seated in a seat affixed to a bicycle for carrying children, it is prohibited to carry children under the age of 6 (six) on a bicycle, and to carry more than one person or child on a bicycle other than those designed for carrying more than one person.

Carrying People in Vehicles

59.
(a) The Ministry shall determine the maximum number of people that can be carried in land vehicles, other than two-wheeled vehicles designed to carry only two people. It is prohibited to carry more than two people in vehicles designed to carry two people, and to carry more people than the number determined by the Ministry in other vehicles.
(b) Small children who cannot sit up without assistance shall be carried in a two-wheeled vehicle designed to carry two people, with a safety belt fastened, in a way that allows the driver to use both hands and feet freely. It is prohibited to carry small children in such vehicles in any other way.
(c) Children shall be carried in a vehicle authorized to carry people under a regulation made for carrying children in such vehicles.
(d) If more people than the number specified for carrying in a land vehicle are carried, the person driving the vehicle shall be fined MVR 500/- (five hundred).
(e) Any vehicle registered to carry passengers shall be used to carry goods, or a vehicle registered to carry goods shall be used to carry passengers, only after changing the registration of that vehicle in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
(f) It is prohibited to carry goods in a land vehicle that carries people in violation of this Act, and to carry people in a vehicle registered to carry goods.

Carrying Goods and Items

60.
(a) Goods and items shall be carried on bicycles, and on motorcycles and motorbikes designed to carry only two people, in a basket affixed to the vehicle or under the seat of the vehicle. Any item not carried in a basket or under the seat shall be carried in a manner that does not cause the driver to lose control of the vehicle, and in a manner that ensures the safety of other vehicles, people, and property.
(b) It is prohibited to carry goods and items in violation of subsection (a) of this article.
(c) For the purpose of this article, the principles regarding the carrying of goods and items in a land vehicle shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.
(d) All vehicles carrying goods must have the maximum permissible weight written in a visible manner.
(e) An item that may catch fire, or explode, or cause harm to a person or people, or a place, shall be carried only in a vehicle authorized by the Ministry for carrying such an item, in accordance with the regulation prescribed for that purpose, and with a prescribed sign affixed.
(f) In circumstances not specified in this article, items that need to be carried shall be carried under a regulation prescribed by the Ministry for that purpose.

Performing Work

61.
(a) Any work that obstructs pedestrians and moving vehicles in any place within the land transport system shall be carried out only after obtaining the necessary permits under a regulation prescribed for that purpose and displaying the required signs. It is prohibited to carry out any work on the road or pavement in a manner other than obtaining a permit and displaying signs in this way.
(b) It is prohibited to drive a land vehicle in violation of the signs in areas where work is being carried out with signs displayed as mentioned in subsection (a) of this article.
(c) The Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry shall issue the permits and signs required under subsection (a) of this section and shall determine and maintain the areas that need to be closed for carrying out the work. When giving permission to work on the road, attention should be paid to giving permission to close the road during hours that cause the least inconvenience, and the work of closing the road should be managed in a way that does not disrupt the traffic flow by closing many roads at once or two important roads leading to the same direction at the same time. In situations where major important roads need to be closed, attention should be paid to closing the road during late-night hours.

Accident

62.
(a) If an accident occurs in any place within the land transport system and any party has a complaint, the parties involved in the accident must, after leaving the vehicle involved in the accident as it is, at the place where it is, inform the traffic police or a party designated for that purpose.
(b) If an accident occurs and no party has a complaint, the parties involved in the accident must inform the traffic police or a party designated for that purpose within 24 (twenty-four) hours.
(c) The police have the power to suspend the license of the party at fault in the accident for a maximum of 7 (seven) days for the purpose of the investigation of accident cases. If the license is suspended in this manner, a temporary license or permit must be issued to that person from the time the license is suspended until the end of the suspension period. If, due to the nature of the accident, the license needs to be suspended for a period longer than 7 (seven) days, the police have the authority to suspend the license under a court order.
(d) Notwithstanding subsection (c) of this section, the police have the authority not to issue a temporary driving permit for a land vehicle to the party at fault in the accident, depending on the severity of the accident.
(e) The conduct of the drivers of the vehicles involved in an accident, the procedures to be followed by the police investigating accident cases, the criteria for determining the severity of the accident and the party at fault in the accident, and other principles to be followed by the public and relevant government authorities in accident cases shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Reckless or Careless Driving of a Land Vehicle

63.
(a) It is prohibited to drive a land vehicle recklessly or carelessly and to drive a land vehicle in a manner that disturbs the peace of the road.
(b) If a person's life is lost due to reckless or careless driving of a vehicle, in addition to bringing criminal charges against the driver of that vehicle under Law No. 9/2014 (Maldives Penal Code), their license may be suspended for a period of between 10 (ten) and 25 (twenty-five) years.
(c) If a person's body is harmed due to reckless or careless driving of a vehicle, in addition to bringing criminal charges against the driver of that vehicle under Law No. 9/2014 (Maldives Penal Code), the license of the driver of that vehicle may be suspended for a period of between 6 (six) months and 5 (five) years, depending on the severity of the harm to the body.
(d) The penalty for a person who drives a vehicle in a manner that could cause harm to a person's body or life is:
1. For the first offense, a fine of MVR 2,000/- (two thousand).
2. For the second offense, a fine of MVR 4,000/- (four thousand). And;
3. For each subsequent offense, a fine of MVR 6,000/- (six thousand) and the suspension of the driving license for a land vehicle issued to that person for a period not exceeding 1 (one) year.
(e) In addition to imposing the penalty specified in this article on persons who drive a land vehicle in the manner specified in this article, the Maldives Police Service has the power to stop the vehicle driven by that person and take that vehicle under the custody of the Maldives Police Service for a maximum period of 30 (thirty) days.
(f) A vehicle impounded under subsection (e) of this article shall be dealt with in accordance with Article 68-1 of this Act.

Alteration to the Original State of the Vehicle

63-1
(a) After the registration of a land vehicle, any alteration to the vehicle may be made in a way that does not alter the original state of the vehicle.
(b) If an alteration made to a land vehicle is an alteration made in violation of the standards specified in the regulations made under this Act, the Maldives Police Service has the power to order the owner of the vehicle to rectify the alteration made to the vehicle.
(c) If the owner of the vehicle does not comply with the order issued by the Maldives Police Service under subsection (b) of this section, the Maldives Police Service has the authority to take such a vehicle under the custody of the Maldives Police Service and to deal with that vehicle in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
(d) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this article, alterations made to a vehicle for the purpose of its maintenance and servicing are not included in the meaning of altering a vehicle.

Use of Horn

64.
(a) The horn of a land vehicle shall be sounded, and its sound shall be maintained, in accordance with the standard prescribed by the Ministry for that purpose.
(b) It is prohibited to use the horns authorized for use in vehicles specialized for public safety and security in other vehicles.

Use of Lights

65.
A land vehicle shall be driven within the land transport system between 6:00 PM and 6:00 AM with lights or reflectors installed as follows:
(a) If it is a non-motorized vehicle, a light of a level prescribed by the Ministry or a light visible from the front must be installed. A red reflector must be installed at the rear of such a vehicle. The Ministry has the authority to permit the use of reflectors instead of lights on such vehicles driven in places where the roads are sufficiently lit.
(b) For two-wheeled motorized vehicles, their headlight and rear taillight must be on.
(c) For motorized vehicles with more than two wheels, two headlights on the front and two taillights on the rear must be on.
(d) When towing a vehicle, the vehicle must have the lights prescribed for that purpose installed. And the two taillights at the rear of the towed vehicle must be on. If the taillights do not work, a sign or reflector indicating this must be installed.
(e) Motorized land vehicles must have signal lights at the front and rear. And when the brakes are applied, the brake lights must be visible to those behind the vehicle, and it must be clear that the vehicle has stopped or slowed down, and when reversing, a white light must be visible to those behind. And every vehicle must have a white light installed to illuminate the rear number plate.
(f) The level and color of the light of the lights installed on a land vehicle and other related standards and principles shall be determined by the Ministry in the regulations made under this Act.
(g) It is prohibited to alter the original lights installed on a land vehicle, and to drive with additional lights installed or with their color altered.

Carrying a License

66.
(a) When driving or operating a vehicle that is designated to be driven or operated with a license, the person driving or operating the vehicle must have the license for that class of vehicle in their possession or displayed in a clearly visible manner in the vehicle.
(b) When the traffic police requests to see the license, it must be presented to them for inspection.
(c) A license does not need to be carried when driving in an examination under the supervision of an examiner. However, when driving for such an examination within the land transport system, the examiner must be with the driver.

Suspension and Revocation of License

67.
(a) The traffic police have the authority to suspend the licenses of persons who hold a driving license for a land vehicle and who commit acts in violation of this Act, in accordance with this Act.
(b) A driving license for a land vehicle may be suspended for a period ordered by a judicial court under a court order.
(c) The license of persons who violate this Act among those who drive land vehicles within the land transport system may be suspended by the traffic police or by a person authorized by the Ministry to suspend licenses from among those who manage traffic. If the license is suspended in this way, a temporary driving permit for a land vehicle for 48 (forty-eight) hours shall be issued instead of the license. If arrangements for paying fines are not available on public holidays, these 48 (forty-eight) hours shall be counted excluding public holidays. The suspended license shall be returned only after payment of all fines imposed for violating this Act and the regulations made hereunder. Arrangements shall be made to return the license upon payment of the fine and settlement of the matter.
(d) The traffic police have the authority to suspend the license of a person if it is established by the traffic police or a person designated by the Ministry that the person is unfit to drive a land vehicle due to their eyesight, medical condition, or lack of ability to drive that vehicle. If a person is involved in more than 5 (five) accidents within 1 (one) year due to their negligence, their license shall be suspended for 6 (six) months.
(e) The penalty for a person who drives a land vehicle while their driving license is suspended for any reason, or without a temporary license, is a fine of MVR 500/- (five hundred) for the first offense, a fine of MVR 750/- (seven hundred and fifty) for the second offense, and a fine of MVR 1,000/- (one thousand) for each subsequent offense.
(f) It is prohibited to drive or operate a land vehicle that requires a license without obtaining a license. The penalty for a person who commits such an act is a fine of MVR 1,000/- (one thousand) for the first offense, a fine of MVR 1,500/- (one thousand five hundred) for the second offense, and a fine of MVR 2,000/- (two thousand) for each subsequent offense.
(g) In addition to fining persons who drive or operate a land vehicle that requires a license without obtaining a license as specified in subsection (f) of this article, the vehicle they were driving may be impounded for a maximum period of 15 (fifteen) days, and the owner of the vehicle shall be fined MVR 2,000/- (two thousand).
(h) A vehicle impounded under subsection (g) of this article shall be dealt with in accordance with Article 68-1 of this Act.
(i) The Ministry or parties designated by the Ministry have the power to deduct points from the driving licenses of persons who repeatedly violate this Act and the regulations made hereunder, suspend the license, and revoke the driving license, in accordance with a regulation made under this Act. A license revoked in this way can be reissued only after fulfilling the necessary requirements in accordance with the regulation, 180 (one hundred and eighty) days after the license was revoked.

Fining

68.
The penalty for every offense for which a specific penalty is not prescribed in this Act is a fine of MVR 750/- (seven hundred and fifty).

Procedures to be Followed Regarding Land Transport Vehicles Brought Under Police Custody

68-1
(a) If a vehicle is impounded under this Act, a notice thereof shall be given to the owner of the vehicle, or if the person driving the vehicle was not the owner, to the person who was driving the vehicle, within a maximum of 24 (twenty-four) hours. The notice given in this manner shall include the following information:
1. The reason for impounding the vehicle;
2. The time the vehicle was impounded;
3. The location of the vehicle;
4. The period for which the vehicle is impounded;
5. To which party the vehicle will be returned;
6. The procedures to be followed to take custody of the vehicle.
(b) After impounding a vehicle under this Act, the party that impounded the vehicle must inform a police officer of the rank of Sub-Inspector of Police or higher of the Maldives Police Service of the matter within a maximum of 12 (twelve) hours from the time the vehicle was impounded.
(c) Upon receipt of the notification under subsection (b) of this section, the police officer of the Maldives Police Service to whom the notification was made shall, within a maximum of 12 (twelve) hours, decide whether the vehicle was impounded with a reasonable cause for impounding a vehicle under this Act. And if the officer finds that the vehicle was not impounded with a reasonable cause for impounding a vehicle under this Act, the Maldives Police Service shall proceed with the arrangements for returning that vehicle in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
(d) Among the vehicles impounded under this Act, the information of the vehicles that remain in police custody because the owner of the vehicle has not taken custody of them shall be publicly published by the police in a easily visible manner. And a period of 60 (sixty) days from the date of such publication shall be given to the owner of the vehicle to take custody of the vehicle.
(e) If the owner of the vehicle does not take the vehicle within the period specified in subsection (d) of this article, the Maldives Police Service has the authority to act as follows:
1. Sell the vehicle in a public auction; or
2. Dispose of the vehicle.
(f) A vehicle impounded under any article of this Act shall be released upon the expiration of the period specified in that article.
(g) Notwithstanding subsection (f) of this section, if a vehicle taken into police custody under this Act is a vehicle suspected by the police of being used in the commission of a criminal offense, or in any of the circumstances specified in the regulations made under this Act, instead of releasing the vehicle from police custody, the police have the authority to deal with that vehicle in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
(h) A vehicle impounded under this Act shall be returned to the owner of the vehicle. The vehicle may be returned to a party other than the owner of the vehicle in the circumstances specified in the regulations made under this Act, in accordance with the procedures specified in that regulation.
(i) If a vehicle taken into police custody under this Act is a stolen vehicle, the owner of the vehicle has the right to apply for the return of the vehicle even before the end of the period for which the vehicle is impounded. The relevant procedures shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Insurance

69.
(a) In the Maldives, a land vehicle shall be driven only after obtaining third-party insurance to provide compensation for any damage caused to a person, place, or thing in an accident involving that vehicle.[3]
(b) Subsection (a) of this article shall come into force after the completion of 3 (three) years from the date of commencement of this Act.
(c) Notwithstanding Article 3 of this Act, the party entrusted with the implementation of this Act shall complete the following matters 6 (six) months before the expiry of the period specified in subsection (b) of this article:
1. Announce a regulation including the general principles of obtaining third-party insurance to provide compensation for damage caused to a thing, person, or place as a result of an accident involving a land vehicle.
2. Announce a regulation including the general principles for the investigation of an accident involving a land vehicle, the method of assessing the extent of damage, and the general principles for obtaining compensation for the damage.
(d) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of this article, there is no obstacle to driving a land vehicle with third-party insurance obtained at one's own discretion. The only principle established by subsection (b) of this article is to postpone the principle of mandatory insurance as stated in subsection (a) of this article until the end of a period of 3 (three) years from the date of commencement of this Act.

Definitions

70.
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a) "Land transport system" means the roads, bridges, private lands, and public lands designated for driving and walking in inhabited islands and places providing public services, all types of vehicles driven in such places, and their drivers.
(b) "Public transport" means the transport of the general public and light cargo by vehicles authorized and licensed for a fee.
(c) "Taxi" means a vehicle that transports passengers and light cargo from one place to another for a prescribed fare, with a license obtained under this Act.
(d) "Roadworthiness" means the set of rules for checking whether a land vehicle meets a prescribed safety standard for use within the land transport system, in accordance with the regulations and conditions determined by the Ministry before the registration and issuance of a driving license for such a vehicle.
(e) "Taxi center" means the parties that provide taxi services with a license as mentioned in this Act.
(f) "Horn" means any device installed in a vehicle to produce sound.
(g) "Parking" means leaving a vehicle in a place or area with the engine off and without a driver.
(h) "Third-party insurance" means insurance taken out to cover damage caused by one's vehicle to another person, another person's vehicle, or to property and possessions.
(i) "Land vehicle" means a vehicle designed for carrying people, goods, or both people and goods, or for providing various public services on land. For the purpose of this Act, towed carts and wheelbarrows are also considered land vehicles.
(j) "Motorized vehicle" means any land vehicle that can be used or driven with the help of oil, electricity, solar energy, or battery power, or any other type of energy.
(k) "Driving instructor" means a person who teaches how to drive a land vehicle.
(l) "Vehicle used for public transport service" means a vehicle that operates according to a prescribed schedule, collects a fare from passengers, and travels in accordance with a license issued by the Ministry.
(m) "Bus stop" means a place designated for passengers to board and alight from authorized vehicles on the routes or in the places where the licensed parties operate buses in accordance with this Act.
(n) "Traffic police" means the party established by the Commissioner of Police to manage traffic in accordance with Law No. 5/2008 (Police Act).
(o) "Pavement" means the area on the side of the road designated for walking.
(p) "Public road" means all roads and lanes used for purposes determined by the state, excluding all roads and lanes established on private land and public land for private use. For the purpose of this Act, roads and lanes designated for public use on private lands and in areas allocated for specific purposes and islands allocated for industrial work are also considered public roads.
(q) "Reckless or careless driving of a land vehicle" means the following acts:
1. Driving a land vehicle at high speed in a zigzag manner across the road;
2. Driving a land vehicle with a modified (modified) silencer to produce a loud noise in a way that creates fear in the hearts of the public;
3. Driving a land vehicle while skidding;
4. Driving at high speed without slowing down for speed bumps when entering an alley or a road or while driving on roads;
5. Racing and performing stunts with a land vehicle within the land transport system without a permit from the Transport Authority and its designated authorities;
6. Overtaking dangerously without giving way to other vehicles on the road and without sufficient space to overtake safely;
7. Driving a land vehicle while under the influence of intoxicants.
(r) "Military vehicle" means a land vehicle used for military purposes among the land vehicles used by the Maldives National Defence Force.
(s) "Use of tobacco" means inhaling or exhaling smoke produced from a substance containing or not containing tobacco through the mouth or nose, or sniffing such a substance.
(t) "Island Council" means the Island Council as defined in Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act of the Maldives).
(u) "City Council" means the City Council as defined in Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act of the Maldives).
(v) "Atoll Council" means the Atoll Council as defined in Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act of the Maldives).

Repealed Law

71.
Upon the commencement of this Act, Law No. 7/95 (Law on Land Vehicles) is hereby repealed.

Schedule of Fees for Land Vehicles

This schedule is established in accordance with the Land Transport Act to specify the fees related to the registration and operation of land vehicles in the Maldives. The fees are categorized based on vehicle type and engine capacity.

1. Motorcycles and Three-Wheelers (Private)

    Up to 50cc: MVR 180/- (One Hundred and Eighty Rufiyaa)

    50cc to 100cc: MVR 360/- (Three Hundred and Sixty Rufiyaa)

    100cc to 150cc: MVR 648/- (Six Hundred and Forty-Eight Rufiyaa)

    150cc to 200cc: MVR 1,152/- (One Thousand One Hundred and Fifty-Two Rufiyaa)

    200cc to 400cc: MVR 3,240/- (Three Thousand Two Hundred and Forty Rufiyaa)

    Above 400cc: MVR 4,320/- (Four Thousand Three Hundred and Twenty Rufiyaa)

(b) For Vehicles with More Than Four Wheels (Private)

    1000cc and below: MVR 2,160/- (Two Thousand One Hundred and Sixty Rufiyaa)

    1001cc to 1500cc: MVR 2,808/- (Two Thousand Eight Hundred and Eight Rufiyaa)

    1501cc to 2000cc: MVR 3,672/- (Three Thousand Six Hundred and Seventy-Two Rufiyaa)

    Above 2000cc: MVR 5,670/- (Five Thousand Six Hundred and Seventy Rufiyaa)

(c) For Heavy Duty Vehicles

    2000cc and below: MVR 1,800/- (One Thousand Eight Hundred Rufiyaa)

    2001cc to 5000cc: MVR 5,000/- (Five Thousand Rufiyaa)

    Above 5001cc: MVR 7,500/- (Seven Thousand Five Hundred Rufiyaa)

(d) Exemption Clause
For vehicles mentioned in sections 1 (a), (b), and (c), if the vehicle is more than 5 years old from the date of manufacture, a 25% discount will be applied to the annual fee.

2. Taxis
MVR 100/- (One Hundred Rufiyaa)

3. Four-Wheeled Vehicles for Rent (Private)
MVR 100/- (One Hundred Rufiyaa)

4. Fees for Change of Ownership

    (a) Motorcycles and Three-Wheelers: MVR 100/- (One Hundred Rufiyaa)

    (b) Other Vehicles: MVR 250/- (Two Hundred and Fifty Rufiyaa)

5. Fees for Re-registration and Issuance of Duplicates

    (a) Re-registration of Motorcycles and Three-Wheelers: MVR 250/- (Two Hundred and Fifty Rufiyaa)

    (b) Re-registration of Other Vehicles: MVR 250/- (Two Hundred and Fifty Rufiyaa)

6. Vehicle Registration Fee
MVR 100/- (One Hundred Rufiyaa)

7. Annual Fee for Garages
MVR 500/- (Five Hundred Rufiyaa)

8. Temporary Permit for Moving a Vehicle
MVR 25/- (Twenty-Five Rufiyaa)

9. Fee for Driving Test
MVR 200/- (Two Hundred Rufiyaa)

10. Driving License Fees

    (a) New License: MVR 500/- (Five Hundred Rufiyaa)

    (b) License Renewal: MVR 500/- (Five Hundred Rufiyaa)

11. Other Fees

    (a) Learner's Permit: MVR 250/- (Two Hundred and Fifty Rufiyaa)

    (b) Duplicate License: MVR 250/- (Two Hundred and Fifty Rufiyaa)

    (c) Change of Information on License: MVR 100/- (One Hundred Rufiyaa)

    (d) International Driving Permit: MVR 250/- (Two Hundred and Fifty Rufiyaa)

12. Fee for Special Number Plates
MVR 250/- (Two Hundred and Fifty Rufiyaa)

13. Fee for Taxi Center Permit
MVR 500/- (Five Hundred Rufiyaa)

14. Fee for Towing Permit
MVR 500/- (Five Hundred Rufiyaa)
