Law on the People's Majlis Election

Introduction and Name
1.
(a) This is the law that sets out and specifies all the principles and procedures for holding the election to elect members to the People's Majlis in accordance with the Constitution.

(b) This law shall be cited as the "Law on the People's Majlis Election".

The People's Majlis Election
2.
(a) The election held to elect members to the People's Majlis in accordance with the Constitution shall be called the People's Majlis Election. For the purpose of this law, the general meaning of the People's Majlis Election shall also include a by-election held to elect a member to a vacant seat of any electoral constituency, if such a seat becomes vacant for a reason other than the expiration of the term of the People's Majlis.

(b) With regard to the special principles and matters specified in this law concerning the People's Majlis Election, actions shall be taken in accordance with this law and the regulations made hereunder. And for all principles and matters not specified in this law or where this law does not explicitly state otherwise, actions shall be taken in accordance with Law Number 11/2008 (General Elections Act).

Persons Entitled to Vote and the Register of Persons Entitled to Vote
3. The right to vote in the People's Majlis Election is granted to persons specified in Law Number 11/2008 (General Elections Act). And concerning the compilation and announcement of the register of persons entitled to vote, actions in the People's Majlis Election shall be taken in accordance with the provisions set out for such matters in Law Number 11/2008 (General Elections Act).

Number of Members to be Elected
4. From each administrative division of the Maldives, 1 (one) member shall be elected to the People's Majlis from each electoral constituency determined by the Elections Commission in accordance with Law Number 1/2009 (Law on Determining the Electoral Constituencies of the People's Majlis).

Announcement for Candidacy in the People's Majlis Election
5.
(a) Upon reaching 120 (one hundred and twenty) days before the expiration of the term of the current People's Majlis as specified in the Constitution, the Elections Commission shall, within a maximum of 10 (ten) days, publicly announce and declare that the opportunity for persons wishing to stand for the election of the new People's Majlis is open.

(b) In the event that a seat becomes vacant due to the removal of a member of the People's Majlis and a person needs to be elected to that seat, the Elections Commission shall, within a maximum of 5 (five) days from the date the seat became vacant, publicly announce and declare that the opportunity for persons wishing to stand for the by-election of that electoral constituency is open.

(c) The announcement made by the Elections Commission under subsection (a) or (b) of this Article must include the information specified in Article 13(b) of Law Number 11/2008 (General Elections Act).

(d) The announcement made by the Elections Commission under subsection (a) or (b) of this Article shall provide a period of 14 (fourteen) days for persons wishing to stand for the People's Majlis Election to submit their applications to the Elections Commission.

Changing the Contested Electoral Constituency and Not Contesting in More Than One Constituency
6.
(a) In a People's Majlis election, one person may not contest for more than one electoral constituency.

(b) In a People's Majlis election, a person who has contested for one electoral constituency may, within the period given by the Elections Commission for submitting candidacy, withdraw their name and contest for another electoral constituency.

Date of Polling
7. In the announcement made by the Elections Commission under Article 5(a) or (b) of this law, the date set for holding the People's Majlis election must be a date that allows for a period of at least 30 (thirty) days from the day the names of the candidates for the election are publicly announced and declared by the Elections Commission in accordance with Article 11 of this law.

Eligibility Requirements for a Person Contesting in the People's Majlis Election
8.
(a) A person contesting for membership of the People's Majlis must meet the following requirements:
(1) Be a Maldivian citizen.
(2) Not be a citizen of a foreign country.
(3) Be a Muslim and a follower of the Sunni sect.
(4) Be at least 18 (eighteen) years of age.
(5) Be of sound mind.

(b) If a citizen of a foreign country becomes a Maldivian citizen, that person may contest for membership of the People's Majlis only after 5 (five) years have passed since becoming a Maldivian citizen. And that person must be residing in the Maldives.

(c) A person in any of the following circumstances may not participate in the People's Majlis election:
(1) A person who has an enforceable debt and is not repaying the debt in accordance with the judgment.
(2) A person serving a sentence of more than 12 (twelve) months for a criminal offense.
(3) A person who has been convicted of a criminal offense and sentenced to a term of more than 12 (twelve) months, if 3 (three) years have not passed since the completion of the sentence or since being pardoned for the punishment specified in that sentence.
(4) Being a judge.

Application for Candidacy in the People's Majlis Election
9.
(a) Upon the announcement by the Elections Commission as specified in Article 5(a) or (b) of this law, persons wishing to stand for the People's Majlis Election shall submit information and documents related to candidacy for the People's Majlis Election to the Elections Commission.

(b) When a person wishing to stand for the People's Majlis Election submits an application, it must include the information mentioned in Article 16(b) of Law Number 11/2008 (General Elections Act).

Documents to be Submitted with the Application for Candidacy
10.
(a) Along with the information submitted by the person wishing to stand for the People's Majlis Election as per Article 9 of this law, the documents specified in Article 17 of Law Number 11/2008 (General Elections Act) must be submitted to the Elections Commission.

(b) The deposit amount to be paid by persons contesting in the People's Majlis Election is MVR 5,000/- (five thousand Rufiyaa).

(c) If a person is contesting independently and not on behalf of a political party in the People's Majlis Election, in addition to the items mentioned in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article, a document containing the full name, Maldivian national identity card number, permanent address, and signature of at least 50 (fifty) persons who are 18 years of age or older from the electoral constituency for which they are applying, indicating their support for that person, must be submitted to the Elections Commission. And the persons who have signed the said document must not be persons who have signed for another candidate contesting for that electoral constituency.

Announcement of the Names of Persons Contesting in the People's Majlis Election
11. Within a maximum of 14 (fourteen) days from the expiry date of the period given for submitting candidacy for the People's Majlis Election in the announcement made by the Elections Commission under Article 5(a) or (b) of this law, the Elections Commission shall announce the information specified in Article 14(a) of Law Number 11/2008 (General Elections Act) and shall display it in its office and in a place easily visible to people in every inhabited island. And that information shall be published on the website of the Elections Commission.

General Principles Regarding the Announcement of the Election and Candidates
12. Except for the matters specified in Articles 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11 of this law, actions regarding the announcement of the election and candidates in the People's Majlis Election shall be taken in accordance with the provisions set out for such matters in Law Number 11/2008 (General Elections Act).

Invalid Vote
13. In the People's Majlis election, in addition to the votes that are as specified in Article 56(a) of Law Number 11/2008 (General Elections Act), any vote where a check mark is placed next to the name of more than one candidate shall be an invalid vote.

Period for Publishing the Official Results in the Gazette
14. Within a maximum of 7 (seven) days from the day of polling in the People's Majlis election, the Elections Commission shall publicly announce the official results of that election and publish them in the Government Gazette.

Matters to be Done in Accordance with the General Elections Act
15. Except for the matter specified in Article 13 of this law, actions regarding campaigning to seek support, preparations for polling, polling, counting of votes and announcement of results, election-related complaints, finance and financial matters, and election-related offenses and punishments in the People's Majlis Election shall be taken in accordance with the provisions set out for such matters in Law Number 11/2008 (General Elections Act).

How a Member of the People's Majlis is Elected
16.
(a) In the People's Majlis election, from among the persons competing in each electoral constituency, the candidate who receives the most votes from the people who voted in that electoral constituency shall be elected.

(b) When the official results of the People's Majlis election are announced, the Elections Commission shall declare that the candidate who received the highest number of votes in an electoral constituency has been elected to the People's Majlis from that electoral constituency.

Holding a Further Round of an Election for an Electoral Constituency
17.
(a) If, in the People's Majlis election, more than one candidate from among the candidates who contested for an electoral constituency receives the highest number of votes from the people who voted in that electoral constituency, a further round of the election for that electoral constituency shall be held between the candidates who tied with the most votes, within a maximum of 15 (fifteen) days from the date the official results of that election are announced. And voting shall continue in this manner until a candidate is elected to the People's Majlis from that electoral constituency in accordance with this law.

(b) In a further round of an election for an electoral constituency under subsection (a) of this Article, the Elections Commission shall declare that the candidate who receives the highest number of votes from the people who voted in that electoral constituency has been elected to the People's Majlis from that electoral constituency.

Matters to be Done in Accordance with this Law in a Further Round of an Election for an Electoral Constituency
18. When holding a further round of an election for an electoral constituency, actions regarding candidates campaigning to seek support, preparations for polling, polling, counting of votes, announcement of results, election-related complaints, finance and financial matters, and election-related offenses and punishments shall also be taken in accordance with the provisions of this law.

Only One Candidate Contesting
19. If, in a People's Majlis election, only one eligible candidate has contested for an electoral constituency by the time the period given for submitting candidacy has expired, the Elections Commission shall declare that the candidate has been elected to the People's Majlis from that electoral constituency.

Ensuring the Secrecy of the Vote
20. If the Elections Commission believes that the secrecy of the vote may be compromised by a person voting into a ballot box designated for registering to vote for a constituency other than the one in which the person is registered, the Commission may instruct such a person to vote into a ballot box that the Elections Commission believes will not compromise the secrecy of the vote.

Announcement for Candidacy in the People's Majlis Election Held During the Transitional Phase
21. The Elections Commission shall, within a maximum of 10 (ten) days after the publication of the final report on the determination of electoral constituencies for the People's Majlis election to be held during the transitional phase specified in the Constitution, as per the Law on Determining the Electoral Constituencies of the People's Majlis, announce that the opportunity for persons wishing to stand for the election to elect members to the People's Majlis during the transitional phase specified in the Constitution is open. And before the Elections Commission publicly announces and declares the candidacy for such an election, if there is a regulation to be made under Article 22(a) of this law, the Elections Commission shall make and publicly announce that regulation.

Making and Implementing Regulations
22.
(a) The regulations required to implement this law shall be made and implemented by the Elections Commission. And within 7 (seven) days from the date this law comes into force, those regulations shall be made and publicly announced.

(b) The Elections Commission shall make arrangements for all regulations made by the Elections Commission regarding elections to be easily accessible to any party that needs them.

(c) Subsection (a) of this Article shall not prevent the Elections Commission from amending a regulation made under it or from making an additional regulation under this law after the period mentioned therein, should the need arise. However, no additional regulation shall be made between the announcement by the Elections Commission that the opportunity to contest in any election is open and the announcement of the official results of that election. And no amendments shall be made to a regulation that is in force.

Commencement of this Law
23. This law shall come into force on the day it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

Meaning of Words and Phrases
24.
(a) Unless explicitly stated otherwise in this law;

"Elections Commission" refers to the Elections Commission appointed under the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives.

"People's Majlis Election" has the meaning given in Article 2(a) of this law.

"By-election" refers to an election held to elect a member to a vacant seat of any electoral constituency, if such a seat becomes vacant for a reason other than the expiration of the term of the People's Majlis.

"Administrative Division" refers to the twenty atolls regarded as the atolls of the Maldives and Male', totaling twenty-one divisions. The details of the administrative divisions are in Schedule 2 of the Constitution.

"Electoral Constituency" refers to the areas determined by the Elections Commission as separate electoral constituencies in each administrative division for the purpose of holding the People's Majlis election, in accordance with the principles stated in Law Number 1/2009 (Law on Determining the Electoral Constituencies of the People's Majlis).

(b) In counting the periods given for doing various things and submitting documents mentioned in this law, public holidays shall be included.

(c) Unless this law explicitly states or implies otherwise, words or phrases used in the singular may be used in their plural meaning, and words or phrases used in the plural may be used in their singular meaning.
