Law on the Protection of Religious Unity of Maldivians

Introduction

    Whereas the citizens of the Maldives are adherents of the noble religion of Islam, and as a people who, as a principle, follow one school of thought and share a single nationality, the maintenance of the long-standing religious unity among Maldivians is essential for the protection of the independence and sovereignty of the Maldives, and for the preservation of peace, harmony, and reconciliation in the country, it is therefore incumbent upon the Maldivian government and its people to protect the religious unity of the Maldivian citizens.

Islamic Education

2.
(a) It is incumbent upon the Ministry designated by the government for the implementation and oversight of educational policies, and upon educational institutions, to design and structure the religious education curriculum in a manner that fosters love for Islam among Maldivian children and encourages them to distance themselves from sectarian differences.
code Code
IGNORE_WHEN_COPYING_START
IGNORE_WHEN_COPYING_END

      
(b) It is mandatory for government schools and private schools to teach Islam as a compulsory subject from Grade 1 to Grade 12 in the Maldives.

(c) As per subsection (b) of this Article, Islam shall be taught in schools by individuals who have obtained a higher education certificate in the field of religious education from an Islamic university or a similar educational center recognized by the Maldives Qualifications Authority, and by individuals who have attained a level of Islamic education recognized by the Maldivian government. For a foreigner, this permit shall only be granted to Sunni Muslims.

(d) No effort shall be made in Maldivian schools to instill in the hearts of children a love for any religion other than Islam. Furthermore, no religion other than Islam shall be taught as a subject.

    

Authority for the Public Manifestation of Religious Symbols and Important Matters to be Adhered to

3.
(a) The oversight of all matters concerning the public manifestation of religious symbols in the Maldives is the responsibility of the Ministry. In this regard, mosques and prayer halls built on inhabited islands of the Maldives shall be under the supervision of the said Ministry.
code Code
IGNORE_WHEN_COPYING_START
IGNORE_WHEN_COPYING_END

      
(b) In the public manifestation of religious symbols, Muezzins, Imams, Khatibs appointed by the Maldivian state and the Ministry, and individuals holding positions responsible for leading the public manifestation of religious symbols with the permission of the Ministry, shall follow the Sunni tradition in matters of worship.

(c) Religious sermons, religious advice, and the publication of religious books in the Maldives shall only be carried out with written permission from the Ministry.

    

Persons to Whom a Permit is Granted

    The permit mentioned in Article 3 of this Law shall be granted to individuals who have obtained a higher education certificate from an Islamic university or a similar institution of that standard recognized by the Maldivian government, and to individuals who have attained a level of religious education recognized by the Maldivian government. This permit shall be granted to Muslims in accordance with the principles established by the Maldivian government.

Formation of the Council

5.
(a) Upon the commencement of this Law, a council named the "Supreme Council for Islamic Fatwa" is hereby established to provide religious fatwas to the government and the Maldivian people on matters of religious disagreement in the Maldives, and to conduct research on new jurisprudential issues and provide religious advice related to such matters.
code Code
IGNORE_WHEN_COPYING_START
IGNORE_WHEN_COPYING_END

      
(b) The "Fiqh Academy," which was operating under the Ministry of Islamic Affairs prior to the commencement of this Law, is hereby changed to the "Supreme Council for Islamic Fatwa."

    

Establishment of the Supreme Council for Islamic Fatwa

6.
(a) To fulfill the responsibilities and duties of the Supreme Council for Islamic Fatwa under this Law, the President of the Republic shall establish an office by the name of the "Supreme Council for Islamic Fatwa" on the date this Law comes into force.
code Code
IGNORE_WHEN_COPYING_START
IGNORE_WHEN_COPYING_END

      
(b) The office established by the President of the Republic under subsection (a) of this Article shall be a separate state institution operating under the Ministry.

(c) The Council established under this Law shall be answerable to the Minister.

    

Responsibilities of the Council

    The responsibilities of the Council are stated below.
    (a) To provide the public with religious fatwas required by the Maldivian society in order to establish and maintain religious unity in the Maldives;
    (b) To provide advisory opinions to state institutions on religious matters for which the Council's advice is sought;
    (c) To identify new jurisprudential issues facing the Islamic Ummah and, on matters that the Council deems important to issue a religious fatwa to the Maldivian people, to provide such fatwas to the public;
    (d) To identify matters of religious disagreement in the Maldives, conduct research on such matters, and provide the Council's fatwa on such matters to the public;
    (e) To organize and conduct conferences and seminars for religious scholars in order to eliminate religious disagreements among the Maldivian people and to seek opinions and consult on various religious issues concerning the public interest; and
    (f) To publish and disseminate writings based on research on various religious topics in order to increase public awareness on religious matters.

Number of Members

    The Council shall consist of 5 (five) members.

Composition of the Council

    The Council shall be composed of the following persons.
    (a) 1 (one) member appointed upon the advice of the Minister;
    (b) 1 (one) member appointed by the President of the Republic from among the academic staff of the Maldives National University or the Islamic University of Maldives; and
    (c) An additional 3 (three) members appointed by the President of the Republic.

Eligibility for Membership

    Members appointed to the Council must fulfill the following criteria while they remain in their position as members.
    (a) Be a Maldivian citizen;
    (b) Be a person who has completed 25 (twenty-five) years of age;
    (c) Not be a person who has been convicted by a court of a crime for which a Hadd is prescribed in Islam or a crime of breach of trust; and
    (d) Be a person who has obtained at least a National Qualifications Framework Level-9 certificate in Islamic Fiqh, Comparative Fiqh, Usul al-Fiqh, or Islamic Sharia in Arabic or English from an Arab Islamic University and has at least 5 (five) years of experience in that field in the Maldives.

Appointment of Members

    The President of the Republic shall appoint the members to be appointed to the Council in the manner prescribed in this Law.

President of the Council

    The President of the Republic shall appoint a person from among the members of the Council as the President of the Council.

Responsibilities of the President of the Council

    The responsibilities of the President of the Council are stated below.
    (a) To plan and conduct all the work to be carried out by the Council under this Law;
    (b) To determine the agenda of the Council's meetings, to preside over the meetings, and to maintain the rules of the meetings;
    (c) To assign to members the study of matters submitted to the Council and to oversee other work; and
    (d) To submit the decisions made by the Council on matters submitted to it to the relevant authorities.

Vice President of the Council

    The President of the Republic shall appoint a person from among the members of the Council as the Vice President of the Council.

Responsibilities of the Vice President of the Council

    The responsibilities of the Vice President of the Council are stated below.
    (a) In the event that the President of the Council is unable to perform his duties, or is on leave, or if the position becomes vacant, to temporarily perform the duties of the President;
    (b) To carry out the tasks assigned by the President of the Council in relation to the work of the Council; and
    (c) To assist the President of the Council in the performance of his duties.

Responsibilities of the Members of the Council

    The responsibilities of the members of the Council are stated below.
    (a) To attend the meetings of the Council, unless there is a valid excuse;
    (b) To diligently carry out, on an individual basis, the tasks assigned to each member by the President of the Council in relation to the work of the Council, and to fulfill the responsibilities and duties of the Council; and
    (c) To work for the advancement of the interests of the Council with due regard to its work.

Term of Membership

    A person appointed to the membership of the Council shall hold that position for the period stated below.
    (a) A member appointed to the Council shall remain in the position of member for a period of 5 (five) years from the date of his or her appointment.
    (b) No person appointed to membership under this Law may hold the position of member for more than 2 (two) consecutive or non-consecutive terms of 5 (five) years.

Remuneration

    The remuneration to be paid to the members of the Council shall be determined by the President of the Republic in consultation with the Ministry of Finance and Treasury.

Vacation of Position

    If any of the following circumstances befall a member, the position of that member shall become vacant.
    (a) Resignation in accordance with Article 21 of this Law;
    (b) Completion of the term of membership;
    (c) Removal from membership in accordance with Article 22 of this Law;
    (d) The loss of any of the qualifications required of members under Article 10 of this Law.

Appointment to Vacant Positions

    If the position of the President of the Council, the Vice President of the Council, or a member of the Council becomes vacant due to any of the circumstances mentioned in Article 19 of this Law, a person shall be appointed to that position within 30 (thirty) days of the position becoming vacant.

Resignation

21.
(a) If a member of the Council wishes to resign from his position, he shall submit a letter stating the reason to the President of the Republic, and upon receipt of that letter by the President of the Republic, that member is deemed to have been removed from membership.
(b) Even if the President or Vice President of the Council resigns from the presidency or vice presidency under subsection (a) of this Article, he shall not be deemed to have resigned from the membership of the Council.

Removal from Membership

    The President of the Republic has the authority to remove a member of the Council from membership if any of the following circumstances arise.
    (a) A member fails to attend 3 (three) consecutive meetings of the Council without a valid excuse;
    (b) A member loses a qualification required by this Law;
    (c) A member, due to an act committed, becomes a person unfit to perform the duties of a member;
    (d) Incompetence in performing the responsibilities of membership;
    (e) Conviction by a court of a criminal offense;
    (f) Declaration of bankruptcy by a judicial ruling.

Appointment of the Secretary-General

23.
(a) The Secretary-General of the Council shall be the person primarily responsible for the administration of the Council's administrative affairs.
(b) As soon as possible after the appointment of members to the Council as specified in Article 5 of this Law, a person shall be appointed to the position of Secretary-General.
(c) The appointment of a person to the position of Secretary-General as specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be made by the Council, based on the competence, education, and experience of the applicants, after conducting interviews with those who apply for the position following a public announcement.

Qualifications of the Secretary-General

    The Secretary-General must fulfill the following qualifications.
    (a) Be a Maldivian citizen;
    (b) Be a person who has completed 25 (twenty-five) years of age;
    (c) Not be a person who has been convicted by a court of a crime for which a Hadd is prescribed in Islam or a crime of breach of trust;
    (d) Be a person who has obtained at least a National Qualifications Framework Level-9 certificate in the field of administration and has at least 5 (five) years of experience in that field, or who has obtained a Level-8 certificate and has at least 7 (seven) years of experience in that field;
    (e) Not be a person holding a position in a political party or an employee of a political party; and
    (f) Be a person who can communicate with ease in Arabic or English.

Responsibilities of the Secretary-General

    The responsibilities of the Secretary-General are stated below.
    (a) To conduct all administrative affairs of the Council in accordance with this Law and the regulations made under this Law;
    (b) To maintain all accounts and records of the Council in accordance with this Law and the regulations made under this Law;
    (c) To make all administrative arrangements for the meetings of the Council and to manage the affairs of the Council's secretariat; and
    (d) To publish and make publicly available the fatwas issued by the Council in accordance with this Law and the regulations made under this Law.

Term of Office of the Secretary-General

26.
(a) The term of office of the Secretary-General is 5 (five) years.
(b) A person may hold the position of Secretary-General for a maximum of 2 (two) terms of 5 (five) years.

Salary and Remuneration of the Secretary-General

    The salary and remuneration of the Secretary-General shall be determined by the Council in consultation with the Ministry of Finance and Treasury.

Resignation from the Position of Secretary-General

    If a person holding the position of Secretary-General wishes to resign from his position, he shall submit a letter stating the reason to the President of the Council, and upon receipt of that letter by the President of the Council, that person is deemed to have been removed from the position of Secretary-General.

Circumstances under which the Secretary-General may be Removed from Office

29.
(a) A person holding the position of Secretary-General may be removed from that position by a majority vote of the members present and voting at a meeting of the Council.
(b) The power vested in the Council under subsection (a) of this Article to remove a person holding the position of Secretary-General from that position shall not be exercised except in the following circumstances.
(1) Failure to perform a duty that he is required to perform under this Law or negligence in the performance of his duty;
(2) Violation of the objectives and policies established for the functioning of the Council in this Law.

Administrative Staff of the Council

30.
(a) The Minister shall provide the administrative staff and resources necessary for the Council to perform its responsibilities and carry out its work.
(b) The administrative staff of the Council are employees included in the Civil Service.

Financial Matters

31.
(a) The funds required for the Council to perform its responsibilities shall be disbursed to the Council from the state budget under a budget passed by the People's Majlis each year. Accordingly, the Council shall prepare a budget and submit it to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury for inclusion in the state budget in accordance with Law No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act) and the regulations made thereunder.
(b) Financial assistance given to the Council by a foreign organization, or the government of a foreign country, or any other party, shall not be used for any purpose other than to achieve the objectives of the Council.
(c) All accounts and records of the Council shall be maintained in accordance with Law No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act).

Auditing

    The accounts of the Council shall be audited once every year through an accountant approved by the Auditor General and appointed by the Council for that purpose.

Fatwa of the Council

    The fatwa issued by the Council on religious matters is the final fatwa issued on that matter.

Making of Regulations

34.
(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Article 38 of this Law, the Council shall make and enforce regulations, including the following matters, for the purpose of carrying out the work of the Council.
(1) The procedure to be followed in seeking the advice and fatwa of the Council;
(2) The characteristics and conditions that must be fulfilled in the fatwas that are published;
(3) The procedure for conducting the meetings of the Council and for making the decisions of the Council;
(4) The manner in which all administrative affairs of the Council shall be planned and conducted.
(b) The regulations to be made under subsection (a) of this Article shall be made and published for public information within 6 (six) months from the date this Law comes into force.

Prohibited Acts

35.
(a) It is a prohibited act to work towards the abolition of the religious unity of the Maldivian people, to speak in a manner that creates religious discord among people, to act in such a manner, or to attempt to do any of these things.
(b) It is a prohibited act to deliver a religious sermon or to speak in public in a way that undermines the independence and sovereignty of the Maldives or the rights of a particular group of society.
(c) No person shall commit any act that could lead to religious strife. In this regard, the following are prohibited acts.
(1) Praying in congregation with the public on a regular basis in places other than mosques on inhabited islands in the Maldives.
(2) Holding Friday prayers in congregation separately in mosques not specifically authorized by the Ministry for holding Friday prayers.
(3) Commencing the Friday sermon at different times in a manner that does not conform to a uniform time for the commencement of the Friday sermon.
(4) Giving religious sermons in mosques contrary to the principles established by the government.
(5) Building places of worship for followers of religions other than Islam, and selling, possessing, and advertising articles that are considered symbols of religions other than Islam.
(6) Seeking and receiving assistance from foreign parties to promote or spread religions other than Islam in the Maldives.
(7) Bringing books of religions other than Islam into the Maldives, advertising such books, showing them to Maldivians, holding exhibitions of such books, selling them, giving them away, and possessing them in a manner that is publicly visible in the Maldives.

Salaries and Gifts from Foreign Parties

    A salary or remuneration or a gift, or any other form of assistance, from a foreign party for the purpose of delivering a religious sermon or giving religious advice or conducting an activity related to the public manifestation of religious symbols in the Maldives shall be accepted only with the written permission of the Ministry.

Punishment

37.
(a) The punishment for a person who acts or attempts to act in contravention of this Law is imprisonment or house arrest for a period of between 2 years and 5 years, depending on the gravity of the offense.
(b) The punishment for a person who assists in acting in contravention of this Law and for a person who conceals information about such an offense is imprisonment or house arrest for a period of between 2 years and 4 years. If the assistance provided was financial, the person who provided the assistance shall, in addition to the punishment prescribed in this subsection, be fined an amount between MVR 5,000/- and MVR 20,000/-, depending on the amount of assistance provided.
(c) In determining the punishment for persons who contravene this Law, the punishment for repeat offenders shall be determined by adding one year for each repeat offense.

Making and Enforcing of Regulations

    The regulations to be made under this Law shall be made and enforced by the Ministry.

Definitions

    Unless the context otherwise requires, the following words shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Article.
    (a) "Religious symbols" means the noble creed, pillars, rulings, commands, and obligations of the religion of Islam as stated in the Holy Quran and the authentic Sunnah of the Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him), and all matters that are derived therefrom.
    (b) "Public manifestation of religious symbols" means enjoining good and forbidding evil, and explaining to people the creed, rulings, commands, and obligations of the religion of Islam and all matters derived therefrom, and establishing the religion of Islam.
    (c) "Delivering a religious sermon and giving religious advice" means delivering a religious sermon and giving religious advice through a means of mass communication or in a place where the public is gathered.
    (d) "Field of religious education" means the field of Islamic Sharia and Aqeedah.
    (e) "Higher education" means undergraduate education and education above that level.
    (f) "Ministry" means the ministry designated by the government for the administration and oversight of matters relating to the religion of Islam.
    (g) "Minister" means the minister of the ministry designated by the government for the administration and oversight of matters relating to the religion of Islam.
    (h) "Fatwa" means the religious advice given in relation to a Sharia ruling.
    (i) "Council" means the "Supreme Council for Islamic Fatwa" established to provide religious fatwas to the government and the Maldivian people on matters of religious disagreement in the Maldives, and to conduct research on new jurisprudential issues and provide religious advice related to such matters.
