Law on the Prevention of Acts Contrary to Public Social Standards
Part One: Introduction

Chapter One: Introduction and Purpose

1. Introduction and Name

(a) This is a law to identify certain types of acts as acts contrary to public social standards and to establish measures to stop individuals from committing such acts, in order to protect other members of society and the community as a whole from the fear, anxiety, and distress caused by the actions of some individuals in society.

(b) This Law shall be cited as the "Law on the Prevention of Acts Contrary to Public Social Standards."

2. Purpose

The purpose of this Law is to achieve the following objectives:

(a) To prevent acts contrary to public social standards.

(b) To determine the measures to be taken against those who commit acts contrary to public social standards.

(c) To grant special powers to the authorities working to prevent acts contrary to public social standards.

(d) To make parents of minors who commit acts contrary to public social standards accountable.

3. Structure of the System

(a) The acts identified as contrary to public social standards under this Law are divided into the following categories:
(1) Acts committed on streets and in public places.
2) Acts related to the environment.
(3) Acts related to residential properties and rental properties.

(b) The measures that can be taken under this Law against persons who commit acts contrary to public social standards include the following:
(1) Warning letter.
(2) Social agreement.
(3) Social order.
(4) Parenting agreement.
(5) Parenting order.
(6) Penalty notice.
(7) Interim order.
(8) Criminalizing certain types of acts.

4. Competent Authorities

This Law grants the power to take action against persons who commit acts contrary to public social standards to the following authorities:

(a) The Police.
(b) Local Councils.
Part Two: Types and Categories of Acts

Chapter Two: Public Nuisance

5. Harassing and Intimidating Neighbors

If a person or a group of persons commits any of the following acts against a neighbor, action may be taken against that person or group under this Law:

(a) Shoving.
(b) Intimidation.
(c) Physical contact.
(d) Throwing objects at a neighbor's house.
(e) Entering a property without permission.
(f) Exposing a sexual organ.
(g) Wearing clothing that contains images or text depicting a sexual organ or a sexual act.
(h) Carrying and using items that symbolize religions other than Islam.
(i) Committing any other act that would create fear in people's hearts or that could cause harm to a person.

6. Harassing and Intimidating Pedestrians

If a person or a group of persons commits any of the following acts in relation to pedestrians on the street or a group of people in a public place, action may be taken against the person or persons who committed the act under this Law:

(a) Shoving.
(b) Intimidation.
(c) Physical contact.
(d) Public urination or defecation.
(e) Exposing a sexual organ.
(f) Wearing clothing that contains images or text depicting a sexual organ or a sexual act.
(g) Carrying and using items that symbolize religions other than Islam.
(h) Committing any other act that would create fear in people's hearts or that could cause harm to a person.

7. Damage to Property

If a person or a group of persons damages a person's property, action may be taken against the person or persons who committed the act under this Law.

Chapter Three: Environment-Related

9. Writing and Drawing in Places

(a) If a person or a group of persons writes or draws using paint, ink, aerosol paint, or any other substance on any of the following places and objects, action may be taken against the person or persons who did so under this Law:
(1) On a street-facing wall of a house or building or in another place visible from the street.
(2) On the street or pavement.
(3) On objects on the street.
(4) On a wall of a place of public access or on any other object in such a place in a manner visible to people.
(5) On a vehicle parked on the street or on a boat or vessel that is docked.

(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, this Article shall not prevent the display of a photograph, a scene, or a drawing, or the creation of any other design with the permission of the owner of a house, building, or place in connection with a specific occasion or for the purpose of holding an event or festival, and the writing or drawing on a street-facing wall of a house where a circumcision ceremony is being held or in another place visible from the street. However, this is provided that such a scene, photograph, design, drawing, or writing is not contrary to public social standards.

10. Affixing Posters or Banners

(a) If a poster or banner is affixed to or installed in any of the following places and objects and is not removed within a reasonable period of time, action may be taken under this Law against the person or entity to whom the poster or banner belongs:
(1) On a street-facing wall of a house or building or in another place visible from the street.
(2) On objects on the street.
(3) In a place of public access.

(b) For the purpose of this Article, if a poster or banner referred to in paragraph (a) is installed by a business, the removal of the poster or banner within a reasonable period shall be deemed to be:
(1) In the case of a poster or banner affixed in connection with a promotion, the removal of the poster or banner within the period specified in the regulations made under this Law upon the conclusion of the promotion.
(2) In other cases, the removal of the poster or banner within the period specified in the regulations made under this Law for the removal of such posters or banners after they have been installed and have begun to deteriorate.

(c) If a poster or banner referred to in paragraph (a) is installed by a government agency or a civil society organization, the removal of the poster or banner within a reasonable period shall be deemed to be:
(1) In the case of a poster or banner affixed in connection with an exhibition, a competition, or an event, the removal of the poster or banner within the period specified in the regulations made under this Law upon the conclusion of the event.
(2) In other cases, the removal of the poster or banner within the period specified in the regulations made under this Law for the removal of such posters or banners after they have been affixed and have begun to deteriorate.

(d) If a poster or banner referred to in paragraph (a) is installed by a candidate competing in an election in connection with an election campaign, the removal of the poster or banner within a reasonable period shall be deemed to be the removal of the poster or banner within the period specified in the regulations made under this Law or in another law upon the conclusion of the campaign.

(e) For the purposes of this Article, the party to whom a poster or banner belongs is, in relation to paragraph (b) of this Article, the business. In relation to paragraph (c) of this Article, it is the relevant government agency or civil society organizations. In relation to paragraph (d) of this Article, it is the candidate competing in that election.

11. Making Loud Noises to Public Annoyance

(a) If a person makes loud noises in houses and buildings by playing loud music, watching TV with the volume turned up, or in any other way that disturbs the neighbors, action may be taken against the person who did so under this Law.

(b) If a person makes loud noises in a restaurant, a cafe, a coffee shop, a tea shop, a sports facility, or any other place frequented by young people and adults for entertainment, by playing loud music, watching TV, or in any other way that disturbs people in the vicinity, action may be taken against the person who did so under this Law.

(c) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Article, this Article shall not prevent the holding of meetings, parties, and other activities in connection with various occasions with the permission of the relevant government agency.

12. Disposing of Waste in Places Other Than Designated Areas

(a) If a person disposes of waste in a place other than a designated waste disposal area, and if any such material is transported by a person on foot or in a moving vehicle without being covered in a way that does not cause inconvenience to the public from the waste bin and spoiled items, action may be taken against the person who did so under this Law.

(b) The accumulation of waste at home without disposing of it, instead of disposing of it in a designated waste disposal area, shall be considered waste disposal under paragraph (a) of this Article. However, this Article does not prevent the keeping of waste for the purpose of making compost in a manner that will not harm the health of the occupants of the house or the neighbors.

13. Making the Street Dirty

(a) If a person commits any of the following acts that make the street dirty, action may be taken against that person under this Law:
(1) Throwing rubbish onto the street or onto objects placed on the street.
(2) Spitting on the street or on objects placed on the street or on the wall of a building.
(3) In addition to the acts specified in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this paragraph (a), committing any act that makes the street dirty.

(b) It is a duty imposed on the relevant authorities under this Law to install notices in tea shops, cafes, canteens, and other places generally visible to the public, or to inform the public by any other means, stating that action will be taken against persons who commit the act specified in paragraph (2) of paragraph (a) of this Article.

Chapter Four: Relating to Houses and Rented Properties

14. Tenants Committing Acts Contrary to Public Social Standards

If a person renting a house or a building commits any of the following acts, action may be taken against that person under this Law:

(a) Committing an act specified in Article 5 of this Law against a neighbor.
(b) Committing an act specified in paragraph (a) of Article 11 of this Law.
(c) Refusing to vacate the premises after the termination of the lease agreement.
Part Three: Measures

Chapter Five: Agreements

15. Social Agreement

(a) A social agreement is an agreement made between a person and a competent authority to stop that person from committing acts contrary to public social standards in the future, after that person has committed such an act.

(b) The purpose of a social agreement shall be to make the person who committed the act contrary to public social standards understand the consequences of their actions and to take responsibility for them.

16. Status of a Social Agreement

(a) A social agreement is an agreement made with the consent of both parties. It is not an agreement that imposes any legal obligation on the persons who commit acts contrary to public social standards for not doing the things stated therein. However, this Article does not prevent the following:
(1) Depending on the severity of the act contrary to public social standards, determining in the agreement that the consequence of not doing something stated in the agreement is to request a social order against the person who committed the act in court, or to issue a penalty notice, or to take any other action.
(2) If an act contrary to public social standards committed by a person is a criminal offense under a law, determining in the agreement that the consequence of not doing something stated in the agreement is to bring a criminal charge for that offense against the person who committed the act contrary to public social standards.

(b) A social agreement shall be complete upon the signing of the agreement by the person who committed the act contrary to public social standards and the competent authority.

17. Content of a Social Agreement

(a) A social agreement shall include the following:
(1) Details of the act or acts contrary to public social standards that a person committed or participated in committing.
(2) The things that the person who committed the act contrary to public social standards is required to do under the agreement. In this regard, if the person is to be made to participate in one or more programs under paragraph (c) of this Article, the details of those programs.
(3) An agreement by the person who committed the act to fulfill the matters stated in the agreement within the period specified in the agreement.
(4) The things that the competent authorities can do to assist the person in stopping them from committing acts contrary to public social standards in the future.

(b) If a competent authority deems that an act contrary to public social standards committed by a person is something that cannot be resolved without taking special measures to stop such acts, it may be stipulated in the agreement that the person must participate in a program or programs specified in paragraph (c) of this Article.

(c) The programs that a person who committed an act contrary to public social standards may be required to participate in under a social agreement pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Article may include the following programs:
(1) Counseling or guidance programs specifically designed to provide advice and assistance to encourage the cessation of such acts.
(2) Family counseling programs.
(3) Anger management programs.

(d) A program stipulated in an agreement for a person who committed an act contrary to public social standards to participate in under paragraph (b) of this Article shall be the most appropriate program for the act they committed.

18. Non-Compliance with a Social Agreement

If a person refuses to sign a social agreement, or after signing such an agreement, refuses to do something contained in it, the person shall be informed that they may be dealt with in one of the following ways:

(a) That a social order may be sought against them in court.
(b) That any other measure specified in this Law may be taken.

20. Parenting Agreement

(a) A parenting agreement is an agreement made between the parent of a minor and a competent authority to prevent the minor from committing acts contrary to public social standards in the future, after the minor has committed such an act.

(b) The purpose of a parenting agreement shall be to make the minor who committed the act contrary to public social standards understand the consequences of their actions and to make the parent understand their role in making the child accountable for those actions and to make the parent accountable for those actions.

21. Status of a Parenting Agreement

(a) A parenting agreement is an agreement made with the consent of both parties. It is not an agreement that creates any legal obligation for not doing the things stated therein. However, this Article does not prevent the determination in the agreement that, depending on the severity of the act contrary to public social standards committed by the minor, the consequence of not doing something stated in the agreement is to apply to the court for a parenting order against the parent, or to issue a penalty notice, or to take any other action.

(b) A parenting agreement shall be complete upon the signing of the agreement by the parent of the minor who committed the act contrary to public social standards and the competent authority.

22. Content of a Parenting Agreement

(a) A parenting agreement shall include the following matters:
(1) Details of the acts contrary to public social standards that the minor committed or participated in committing.
(2) The things that the minor who committed the act contrary to public social standards and/or the minor's parent are required to do under the agreement. In this regard, if the minor and/or the parent are to be made to participate in a program or more than one program under paragraph (c) of this Article, the details of those programs.
(3) An agreement by the parent to fulfill the matters stated in the agreement within the period specified in the agreement.
(4) The things that the competent authorities can do to assist the parent in preventing the child from committing acts contrary to public social standards in the future.

(b) If a competent authority deems that an act contrary to public social standards committed by a minor is something that cannot be resolved without taking special measures to stop such acts, it may be stipulated in the agreement that the minor's parent must participate in a program or programs specified in paragraph (c) of this Article.

(c) The programs that the minor who committed the act contrary to public social standards and/or the parent may be proposed to participate in under a parenting agreement pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Article may include the following programs:
(1) Counseling or guidance programs specifically designed to teach how to deal with minors who commit such acts and to provide assistance in various ways.
(2) Family counseling programs.
(3) Anger management programs.

23. Non-Compliance with a Parenting Agreement

If a person refuses to sign a parenting agreement, or after signing such an agreement, refuses to do something contained in it, the person shall be informed that they may be dealt with in one of the following ways:

(a) That a parenting order may be sought against them in court.
(b) That any other measure specified in this Law may be taken.

Chapter Six: Orders

24. Social Order

A social order is a civil order issued by a court prohibiting a person from doing certain things or obliging them to do certain things in order to bring them back to the public social standard, after they have committed an act contrary to public social standards.

25. Applying for and Issuing a Social Order

(a) If a person has committed or is committing an act or acts contrary to public social standards, a competent authority may apply to the court for a social order against that person in the following circumstances:
(1) The person refuses to sign a social agreement as specified in Article 15 of this Law.
(2) The person fails to do something that they are required to do in such an agreement.
(3) The competent authority believes that it is more appropriate to issue a social order than to enter into such an agreement.

(b) The party applying for a social order must prove to the court that issuing a social order is the most appropriate measure to be taken in the matter. In this regard, the following must be proved to the court:
(1) That the person has committed an act contrary to public social standards or has been committing such acts.
(2) That the act has caused fear, anxiety, and distress to a part of the community.
(3) That issuing a social order is a necessary order to protect the residents of an area or a ward where such an act has occurred or is likely to occur in the future from such acts.

(c) When applying to the court for a social order, evidence relating to the above matters must be submitted.

(d) If the matters specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Article are fulfilled in relation to a social order submitted under this Article, the court has the discretion to issue such an order against that person, subject to the following conditions:
(1) Prohibiting the commission of certain types of acts for a certain period of time.
(2) Prohibiting entry to certain areas for a certain period of time.
(3) Requiring participation in a counseling or guidance program determined by the court for a certain period of time.

(e) Before issuing a social order, the court shall explain the following to the person to whom the order is directed, in a language that they can easily understand:
(1) The reason for issuing the order.
(2) That the order must be complied with.
(3) The things that they are required to do under the order.
(4) That if they fail to do something required under the order, action will be taken under Article 30 of this Law.
(5) That the court has the discretion to review the order at the request of the person to whom the order is directed, or at the request of the party who applied for the order.
(6) That the order may be appealed against.

(f) The things that a person to whom a social order is directed is required to do or is prohibited from doing in a social order must be necessary measures to protect the residents of that area or ward from such acts.

(g) A social order shall remain in force until the expiry of the period specified in the order. Such an order may be made for a maximum period of 2 (two) years.

26. Parenting Order

(a) A parenting order is a civil order issued by a court prohibiting the parent of a minor from doing certain things or obliging the parent to do certain things in order to make the parent accountable for bringing the minor back to the public social standard, after the minor has committed an act contrary to public social standards.

(b) A parenting order shall be made requiring the parent to do the things contained in the order within a period of not more than 1 (one) year. Upon the expiry of the 1 (one) year period, the order shall become void.

27. Applying for and Making a Parenting Order

(a) If a minor has committed or is committing an act or acts contrary to public social standards, a competent authority may apply to the court for a parenting order in the following circumstances:
(1) The parent refuses to sign a parenting agreement as specified in Article 20 of this Law.
(2) The parent fails to do something that they are required to do in such an agreement.
(3) The competent authority believes that it is more appropriate to issue a parenting order than to enter into such an agreement.

(b) The party applying for a parenting order must prove to the court that issuing a parenting order is the most appropriate measure to be taken in the matter. In this regard, the following must be proved to the court:
(1) That a child under the care of the person to whom the parenting order is directed has committed an act contrary to public social standards or has been committing such acts.
(2) That the act has caused fear, anxiety, and distress to a part of the community.
(3) That issuing a parenting order is a necessary order to protect the residents of an area or a ward where such an act has occurred or is likely to occur in the future from such acts.

(c) When applying to the court for a parenting order, evidence relating to the above matters must be submitted.

(d) In issuing a parenting order under this Article, the court shall obtain information on the family life of the minor who committed the act contrary to public social standards and shall have regard to the adverse effects that such an order may have on his family life.

(e) Before issuing a parenting order, the court shall explain the following to the parent in a language that they can easily understand:
(1) The reason for issuing the order.
(2) That the order must be complied with.
(3) The things that the parent is required to do under the order.
(4) That if they fail to do something required under the order, action will be taken under Article 30 of this Law.
(5) That the court has the discretion to review the order at the request of the parent, or at the request of the party who applied for the order.
(6) That the order may be appealed against.

28. Appealing Against an Order

If a court makes a social order or a parenting order against a person under this Law, the person to whom the order was directed has the right to appeal against the order.

29. Varying or Discharging a Social Order and a Parenting Order

(a) While a social order or a parenting order made against a person under this Law is in force, the person to whom the order is directed or the party who applied for the order may apply to the court to discharge the order or to vary or discharge specific articles in the order.

(b) Upon an application to the court to vary or discharge an order under paragraph (a) of this Article, the court may, after reviewing the order again, discharge the order if it sees fit. Or the order may be varied in one of the following ways:
(1) Varying a specific article in the order.
(2) Discharging a specific article in the order.
(3) Adding an article or articles in place of or in addition to the matters contained in a specific article in the order.

(c) If the court sees fit to dismiss an application submitted to vary or discharge an order under this Article, the court has the discretion to decide the case in that manner.

30. Breach of a Social Order and a Parenting Order

(a) If, while a social order or a parenting order made against a person is in force, that person, without a reasonable excuse, fails to do something that they are required to do under the order or does something that they are prohibited from doing under the order, that person shall be deemed to have committed an offense under this Law.

(b) The circumstances in which it will be believed that a person did something prohibited under a social order or a parenting order or failed to do something required under such an order with a reasonable excuse shall be specified in the regulations made under this Law.

(c) The penalty for the offense specified in paragraph (a) of this Article is a fine not exceeding MVR 2,000 (two thousand), or house arrest for a period not exceeding 6 (six) months, or a fine not exceeding MVR 2,000 (two thousand) and house arrest for a period not exceeding 3 (three) months.

31. Sharing of Information

Before any authority specified as being able to apply for a social order or a parenting order under this Law applies for a parenting order, it shall inform the other authorities having the discretion to apply for such an order of that fact.

32. Applying for an Interim Order

(a) An interim order is an order made against the person to whom the order is directed, prohibiting them from doing certain things until the order is issued, or until the matter is decided in a certain way, while a case has been submitted to the court for a social order or a parenting order under this Law.

(b) While an application for a social order or a parenting order under this Law is pending, if the court deems it important to issue an interim order before making a decision on such an order, the court may issue such an interim order.

(c) An interim order issued under this Article shall be an order issued for a specific period.

(d) The court has the discretion to vary or discharge an interim order specified in this Article.

(e) If an interim order issued under this Article does not specify a period for which it will be void, the interim order will be void upon a decision being made on the matter of the social order or parenting order that the court is considering.

33. Determining the Procedure Relating to the Order

The manner in which an application for an order specified in this Law shall be submitted to the court, and the related court procedure, shall be specified in the regulations made under this Law.

Chapter Seven: Warnings and Penalty Notices

34. Giving a Warning

(a) If an act contrary to public social standards committed by a person under this Law is an act of minor harm, a warning may be given to that person as a first step, instead of entering into a social agreement or a parenting agreement under this Law.

(b) In giving a warning under this Article, one of the following two methods may be followed:
(1) Sending a warning letter containing the matters specified in paragraph (c) of this Article to the person who acted contrary to public social standards.
(2) A competent authority meeting with the person who acted contrary to public social standards and explaining the matters specified in paragraph (c) of this Article and giving advice.

(c) In giving a warning under this Article, the person who committed the act contrary to public social standards, or if the act was committed by a minor, the minor and the minor's parent, shall be informed of the problem at hand, and it shall be stated that the act is an act contrary to public social standards and what the consequences of the act are. It shall also be stated that their actions will be monitored, and if they continue to behave in such a manner, a social order may be sought against them in court, or a penalty notice may be issued under this Law, or any other action may be taken against them.

35. Issuing a Penalty Notice

(a) A penalty notice is a notice given to a person who has committed an act designated as an act contrary to public social standards under this Law, giving them the opportunity to be exempt from further action under this Law after paying a specified amount of fine within the period specified in the notice.

(b) If the person to whom the notice is directed pays the fine within the period specified in the notice, no further action shall be taken against them under this Law.

(c) If the fine is not paid within the period specified in the notice, further action may be taken against them under this Law. The measures that may be taken in this regard shall be specified in the regulations made under this Law.

(d) The matters in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this Article shall be stated in that notice.

(e) A person may be given a penalty notice under this Law for a fine of an amount specified in this Law or in the regulations made under this Law.
Part Four: Act and Measure

Chapter Eight: Procedure for Taking Action

36. Action to be Taken in Relation to Harassing and Intimidating Neighbors

(a) If a person commits an act specified in Article 5 of this Law, the competent authority shall first see if the matter can be resolved by giving the person a warning as specified in Article 34 of this Law.

(b) If the matter cannot be resolved as provided in paragraph (a) of this Article, or if the competent authority deems that it will not be so resolved, the competent authority may enter into a social agreement as specified in Article 15 of this Law with the person who commits the act specified in Article 5 of this Law.

(c) If, in making a social agreement as in paragraph (b) of this Article, the situation specified in Article 18 of this Law arises, an application may be made to the court for a social order as specified in Article 24 of this Law against the person who committed the act, as specified in paragraph (a) of that Article.

(d) If an act specified in Article 5 of this Law is an act that caused great harm, or if the person who committed the act repeats such an act, instead of entering into a social agreement under paragraph (b) of this Article, the competent authority may apply directly to the court for a social order.

(e) If, while a social order has been made against a person under this Article, the situation specified in Article 30 of this Law arises, a criminal charge may be brought against that person under that Article.

37. Action to be Taken in Relation to Harassing and Intimidating Pedestrians

(a) If a person commits an act specified in Article 6 of this Law, the competent authority shall first see if the matter can be resolved by giving the person a warning as specified in Article 34 of this Law.

(b) If the matter cannot be resolved as provided in paragraph (a) of this Article, or if the competent authority deems that it will not be so resolved, a social agreement as specified in Article 15 of this Law may be entered into with the person who committed the act.

(c) If, in making a social agreement as in paragraph (b) of this Article, the situation specified in Article 18 of this Law arises, an application may be made to the court for a social order as specified in Article 24 of this Law against the person who committed the act, as specified in paragraph (a) of that Article.

(d) If an act specified in Article 6 of this Law is an act that caused great harm, or if the person who committed the act repeats such an act, instead of entering into a social agreement under paragraph (b) of this Article, the competent authority may apply directly to the court for a social order.

(e) If, while a social order has been made against a person under this Article, the situation specified in Article 30 of this Law arises, a criminal charge may be brought against that person under that Article.

39. Writing and Drawing in Places

(a) If a person commits an act specified in Article 9 of this Law, the competent authority shall first see if the matter can be resolved by giving the person a warning as specified in Article 34 of this Law.

(b) If the matter cannot be resolved as provided in paragraph (a) of this Article, or if the competent authority deems that it will not be so resolved, a social agreement as specified in Article 15 of this Law may be entered into with the person who committed the act.

(c) If, in making a social agreement as in paragraph (b) of this Article, the situation specified in Article 18 of this Law arises, an application may be made to the court for a social order as specified in Article 24 of this Law against the person who committed the act, as specified in paragraph (a) of that Article. Or if there is sufficient evidence to believe that a specific person committed an act specified in Article 9 of this Law, a penalty notice as specified in Article 35 of this Law may be given to the person who committed the act, as specified in paragraph (b) of Article 18 of this Law.

(d) If an act specified in Article 9 of this Law is an act that caused great harm, or if the person who committed the act repeats such an act, instead of entering into a social agreement under paragraph (b) of this Article, the competent authority may apply directly to the court for a social order.

(e) If, while a social order has been made against a person under this Article, the situation specified in Article 30 of this Law arises, a criminal charge may be brought against that person under that Article.

(f) A person may be fined an amount not exceeding MVR 500 (five hundred) in connection with a penalty notice issued under this Article.

(g) If a person, upon being asked for their name and address for the purpose of being fined under this Article, fails to provide that information, or provides false information, that person has committed an offense.

(h) The penalty for the offense specified in paragraph (g) of this Article is a fine not exceeding MVR 2,000 (two thousand).

(i) If it is believed that a person has committed an act specified in this Article, the competent authorities specified in Article 4 of this Law have the power to do the following in order to see if the person has in their possession any instrument that could be used to commit such an act:
(1) To search the person's body.
(2) To stop the vehicle in which the person is traveling and to search that vehicle.

40. Action to be Taken in Relation to Affixing Posters or Banners

(a) If a person commits an act specified in paragraph (a) of Article 10 of this Law, the competent authority shall first see if the matter can be resolved by giving the person a warning as specified in Article 34 of this Law.

(b) If the matter cannot be resolved as provided in paragraph (a) of this Article, and if there is sufficient evidence to believe that a specific person committed the act, a competent authority may issue a penalty notice as specified in Article 35 of this Law to the person who committed the act.

(c) A person may be fined an amount not exceeding MVR 500 (five hundred) in connection with a penalty notice issued under this Article.

(d) If a person, upon being asked for their name and address for the purpose of being fined under this Article, fails to provide that information, or provides false information, that person has committed an offense.

(e) The penalty for the offense specified in paragraph (d) of this Article is a fine not exceeding MVR 2,000 (two thousand).

41. Action to be Taken in Relation to Making Loud Noises

(a) If a person who commits an act specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Article 11 of this Law does not stop after being given a 15 (fifteen) minute opportunity to stop, a competent authority may issue a penalty notice as specified in Article 35 of this Law to the person who committed the act.

(b) If the fine specified in a penalty notice issued under paragraph (a) of this Article is not paid, it shall be stated that an application for a social order may be made against that person in court.

(c) A person may be fined an amount not exceeding MVR 500 (five hundred) in connection with a penalty notice issued under this Article.

(d) If a person, upon being asked for their name and address for the purpose of being fined under this Article, fails to provide that information, or provides false information, that person has committed an offense.

(e) The penalty for the offense specified in paragraph (d) of this Article is a fine not exceeding MVR 2,000 (two thousand).

42. Action to be Taken in Relation to Disposing of Waste in Places Other Than Designated Areas

(a) If there is sufficient evidence to believe that a specific person committed an act specified in Article 12 of this Law, an authorized person from among the competent authorities may issue a penalty notice as specified in Article 35 of this Law to the person who committed the act.

(b) If the fine specified in a penalty notice issued under paragraph (a) of this Article is not paid, it shall be stated that an application for a social order may be made against that person in court.

(c) A person may be fined an amount not exceeding MVR 500 (five hundred) in connection with a penalty notice issued under this Article.

(d) If a person, upon being asked for their name and address for the purpose of being fined under this Article, fails to provide that information, or provides false information, that person has committed an offense.

(e) The penalty for the offense specified in paragraph (d) of this Article is a fine not exceeding MVR 2,000 (two thousand).

43. Action to be Taken in Relation to Making the Street Dirty

(a) If there is sufficient evidence to believe that a specific person or persons committed an act specified in Article 13 of this Law, or if an employee of a competent authority sees a person or persons committing such an act, an authorized person from among the competent authorities may issue a penalty notice as specified in Article 35 of this Law to the person who committed the act.

(b) A person may be fined an amount not exceeding MVR 500 (five hundred) in connection with a penalty notice issued under this Article.

(c) If a person, upon being asked for their name and address for the purpose of being fined under this Article, fails to provide that information, or provides false information, that person has committed an offense.

(d) The penalty for the offense specified in paragraph (d) of this Article is a fine not exceeding MVR 2,000 (two thousand).

44. Action to be Taken When Tenants Commit Acts Contrary to Public Social Standards

(a) If a person commits an act specified in Article 14 of this Law, the competent authority shall first see if the matter can be resolved by giving the person a warning as specified in Article 34 of this Law.

(b) If the matter cannot be resolved as provided in paragraph (a) of this Article, or if the competent authority deems that it will not be so resolved, a social agreement as specified in Article 15 of this Law may be entered into with the person who commits the act.

(c) If, in making a social agreement as in paragraph (b) of this Article, the situation specified in Article 18 of this Law arises, an application may be made to the court for a social order as specified in Article 24 of this Law against the person who committed the act, as specified in paragraph (a) of that Article. Or if there is sufficient evidence to believe that a specific person committed an act specified in Article 14 of this Law, a penalty notice as specified in Article 35 of this Law may be given to the person who committed the act, as specified in paragraph (b) of Article 18 of this Law.

(d) If an act specified in Article 14 of this Law is an act that caused great harm, instead of entering into a social agreement under paragraph (b) of this Article, the competent authority may apply directly to the court for a social order.

(e) If, while a social order has been made against a person under this Article, the situation specified in Article 30 of this Law arises, a criminal charge may be brought against that person under that Article.

(f) A person may be fined an amount not exceeding MVR 500 (five hundred) in connection with a penalty notice issued under this Article.

(g) If a person, upon being asked for their name and address for the purpose of being fined under this Article, fails to provide that information, or provides false information, that person has committed an offense.

(h) The penalty for the offense specified in paragraph (g) of this Article is a fine not exceeding MVR 2,000 (two thousand).

(i) If the person who committed the act specified in Article 14 of this Law repeats such an act, or if the act is a violent act, or if the act has caused harm to a person, in addition to the matters specified in this Article, the competent authority may apply to the court for an interim order as specified in Article 32 of this Law.

(j) When applying for an interim order under paragraph (i) of this Article, an application may be made for the order to require the person who committed the act to leave the house or the building. And if the person is living in the house or building with their family, an application may also be made in the order for them and their family to be removed together.

45. Action to be Taken When Minors Commit Acts Contrary to Public Social Standards

(a) If an act specified in Articles 6 to 14 of this Law is committed by a minor, and if a competent authority deems that the most appropriate measure to be taken against them is to enter into a parenting agreement as specified in Article 20 of this Law with their parent, a parenting agreement may be entered into with the parent of the minor who committed the act.

(b) If, in making a parenting agreement as in paragraph (a) of this Article, the situation specified in Article 23 of this Law arises, an application may be made to the court for a parenting order as specified in Article 26 of this Law against that parent, as specified in paragraph (a) of that Article.

(c) If, while a parenting order has been made against a person under this Article, the situation specified in Article 30 of this Law arises, a criminal charge may be brought against that person under that Article.

(d) In addition to the matters specified in paragraphs (a) to (c), the competent authorities have the discretion to act in the following manner:
(1) Taking the child to their place of residence and handing them over to their parent.
(2) Providing information about the act committed by the child to their parent.
(3) Giving advice to stop committing such an act.
(4) Giving a warning that if such an act is repeated, action may be taken against the child in one of the ways in paragraph (d) of this Article.

(e) A competent authority may act in the following manner in respect of a child who repeats an act specified in paragraph (a) of this Article:
(1) Applying to the court for a social order as specified in Article 24 of this Law against the child.
(2) Issuing a penalty notice to the parent.
Part Five: Miscellaneous

Chapter Nine: General Provisions

46. Making and Implementing Regulations

(a) The regulations to be made under this Law shall be made by the following authorities in relation to the following matters:
(1) The regulations to be made in relation to acts related to the environment shall be made by the Ministry of Environment.
(2) The regulations to be made in relation to rented properties shall be made by the government ministry responsible for housing and residential properties.
(3) The Ministry of Home Affairs shall make regulations in relation to matters other than those specified above.

(b) All regulations to be made under this Law shall be made and published for public information within 3 (three) months of the passing of this Law.

47. Commencement of the Law

(a) This Law shall come into force within 6 (six) months of its passing, ratification, and publication in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

(b) Within 3 (three) months of the making and public notification of the regulations to be made under this Law, the competent authorities shall make all necessary arrangements for the implementation of this Law.

48. Definitions

(a) Unless otherwise stated in this Law, the following terms and phrases shall have the meanings given below in relation to those terms and phrases:
(1) "Act contrary to public social standards" means any act committed by a person or more than one person that creates fear, anxiety, and distress in the hearts of members of society.
(2) "Parent" includes a minor's mother or father or the minor's guardians.
(3) "Place of public access" means all streets and alleys of the islands of the Maldives, and all places, vehicles, and things to which the public or a section of the public has express or implied permission to enter at that time, whether for a fee or without a fee.
(4) "Intimidation" includes any act that can be considered to give the other person the feeling of being intimidated, whether by word of mouth, in writing, or by an act committed.
(5) "Physical contact" means touching a person's body with a person's limb or by means of an object.
(6) "Responsible person" means a minor's parent or guardian or any other person who is responsible for that minor.
(7) "Competent authority" means an employee of a place from among the parties specified in Article 4 of this Law who is authorized to act under this Law from that place.
(8) "Entering a property without permission" means entering a place where a person or persons live without the permission of the owner of the place or the person living there or the person in charge of the place, and entering a government office or a public office without permission in violation of the established procedure for public entry and exit.
(9) "Ministry of Environment" means the government ministry responsible for handling environmental matters.
(10) "Ministry of Housing and Residential Properties" means the government ministry responsible for handling matters related to housing and residential properties.
(11) "Local Councils" means Island Councils, Atoll Councils, and City Councils.

(b) Words in this Law in the singular shall also be used in their plural meaning. And words in the plural shall be used in their singular meaning.
