Law on the Control of Pesticides Used in Agriculture
Chapter One
Preliminary Articles

1. Introduction and Name

(a) This is the law to establish the principles regarding the use, production, import into the Maldives, export, sale, and disposal of pesticides used in agriculture in the Maldives, to investigate and take action against acts that harm public health and the environment in the use of pesticides, and to state other principles related to pesticides.

(b) This law shall be cited as the "Law on the Control of Pesticides Used in Agriculture."

2. Purpose of the Law

The main purposes of this law are stated below.

(a) To state the principles regarding the import of pesticides used in agriculture into the Maldives, their export from the Maldives, their sale, production, use, maintenance, and disposal within the Maldives;

(b) To state the principles regarding the implementation of the responsibilities that the Maldives must bear under all international treaties and agreements related to pesticides to which the Maldives is a party;

(c) To state the principles regarding the issuance of licenses for importing, exporting, producing, repackaging, and selling pesticides used in agriculture;

(d) To increase public awareness and organize training on the proper use of pesticides to prevent potential harm from their use;

(e) To establish and enforce safety measures to be taken when handling pesticides to protect against the dangers they may pose;

(f) To establish a system for submitting and investigating cases related to the import, export, sale, use, and disposal of pesticides in violation of the law; and

(g) To encourage the reduction of pesticide use in the Maldives and to promote the use of pesticide alternatives (biopesticides).
Chapter Two
Administration of the Law

3. Responsibility for Administration

The primary responsibility for the administration of this law is vested in the Minister.

4. Policy Making

It is the responsibility of the Minister to formulate policies related to pesticides in a manner consistent with the spirit of this law and in a way that achieves the objectives of this law.

5. Administrative Arrangements for Pesticide-Related Work

The Minister shall make the necessary administrative arrangements to oversee all matters related to pesticides.

6. Pesticide-Related Work

The responsibilities to be fulfilled to oversee all matters related to pesticides under this law are stated below.

(a) To establish and enforce safety measures to be taken to protect against the dangers that may arise from pesticides;

(b) To designate and publicize areas where the use of pesticides is prohibited and areas where a specific amount of pesticides may be used in special circumstances, in order to minimize the harm to the environment from the use of pesticides;

(c) To maintain and publish a registry of authorized pesticides as specified in this law;

(d) To conduct necessary analyses related to pesticides for the purpose of this law through a laboratory that operates at a standard acceptable to the government;

(e) To monitor the pesticide trade and to collect and evaluate relevant statistics;

(f) To prepare and review the requirements for the labels and information leaflets of pesticides produced under a license under this law;

(g) To monitor and oversee the manner in which pesticides are used by those who use them;

(h) To promote Integrated Pest Management in order to reduce the level of dependence on pesticides;

(i) To work in collaboration with the relevant authorities and research centers of the countries from which pesticides are imported regarding matters related to pesticides;

(j) To work in collaboration with the relevant authorities of the Maldives in implementing the responsibilities that the Maldives must bear under international treaties and agreements related to pesticides to which the Maldives is a party, and other responsibilities related to pesticides;

(k) To increase public awareness and organize training on the proper use of pesticides to prevent the dangers of improper use and the harm that may result from it;

(l) To make and enforce regulations regarding the production, import into the Maldives, export, sale, use, and disposal of such substances;

(m) To conduct studies on applications submitted to add a pesticide to or remove one from the registry of authorized pesticides, and to obtain all information related to that pesticide;

(n) To obtain the necessary information for issuing licenses for the production of pesticides in the Maldives, the import of such substances into the Maldives, their export from the Maldives, their packaging, and their sale;

(o) To fulfill other responsibilities necessary to achieve the objectives of this law.

7. Advisory Committee on Pesticides

(a) The Minister shall form a committee, including relevant government authorities, to provide the Minister with the necessary advice and consultation to implement the policies stated in this law and to achieve the objectives stated in this law. This committee shall be chaired by the Minister.

(b) As members of the committee referred to in subsection (a) of this article, at least one person from each of the following authorities shall be included.

(1) The government ministry entrusted with the responsibility of formulating and implementing environmental policies;
(2) The Environmental Protection Agency;
(3) The government ministry entrusted with the responsibility of formulating and implementing health policies;
(4) The government ministry entrusted with the responsibility of formulating and implementing defense policies; and
(5) The Maldives Customs Service.

(c) This article does not prevent the Minister from appointing other persons to the committee referred to in subsection (a) of this article in addition to the persons appointed under subsection (b) of this article.
Chapter Three
Registry of Authorized Pesticides

8. Authorization of Pesticides

(a) The Minister shall, in accordance with the provisions of this law, authorize the types of pesticides that can be produced, used, sold, imported into the Maldives, and exported from the Maldives as pesticides.

(b) A government authority or a person licensed under this law may submit a request to the Ministry to authorize a pesticide in accordance with subsection (a) of this article, along with the information specified in Article 9(a) of this law.

(c) If the information required in the applications submitted for the authorization of a pesticide under subsection (b) of this article is complete, the Minister shall make a decision regarding the authorization of that pesticide within 7 (seven) days of receiving the application and shall inform the applicant.

9. Matters to be Considered in Authorizing a Pesticide

(a) A government authority or a person licensed under this law who wishes to apply for the authorization of a pesticide shall submit the following information to the Ministry.

(1) The health risks that the pesticide may pose to humans or animals;
(2) The risks that the pesticide may pose to the environment, including its toxic effects on beneficial insects, fish, and the marine environment, other than the types of pests targeted for elimination by the use of that pesticide;
(3) The extent of the opportunity for the pesticide to spread through the soil and contaminate water;
(4) The level of effectiveness (efficacy) of the pesticide;
(5) The amount required for pest control;
(6) The level of danger of the pesticide for which authorization is sought, compared to other types in the registry of authorized pesticides published under Article 10 of this law;
(7) The manner and extent to which agriculture may benefit or be harmed;
(8) The proposed label or handbook;
(9) Details, photos, or samples of the containers proposed for packaging the pesticide;
(10) The persistence of the effect of the Permitted Maximum Residue Level in this type of pesticide, and the risk of the pesticide residue in edible plants, fruits, and vegetables exceeding the Maximum Residue Level as a result;
(11) The extent to which the pesticide conforms to the standards set by international standards for pesticides and the extent to which that type is registered in other countries.

(b) The Minister shall authorize a pesticide based on an application submitted to the Ministry for the authorization of a pesticide under Article 8(b) of this law, after considering the information submitted under subsection (a) of this article.

10. Registry of Authorized Pesticides

(a) The Ministry shall maintain a registry of the types of pesticides that the Minister authorizes to be produced, used, sold, imported into the Maldives, and exported from the Maldives under Article 8 of this law, and shall publish it in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

(b) The registry of authorized pesticides published under subsection (a) of this article shall include the following information.

(1) Common name;
(2) Scientific name;
(3) Formulation;
(4) Concentration;
(5) The purposes for which the pesticide is authorized to be used (type of plant and the disease, pest, or disease-spreading agents affecting humans or animals that can be controlled);
(6) Information on the formulation, active ingredient, and toxicity if it contains a poison;
(7) Material Safety Data Sheet;
(8) Information on the analyses conducted in relation to that pesticide;
(9) A report on the effects on the environment when the proposed formulation is used at the proposed rate;
(10) Information to be included on the label or matters to be included in the information leaflet to be provided to the public when releasing it to the market;
(11) Information regarding the proper storage, transportation, handling, and use of the pesticide, including special safety measures to be taken; and
(12) Information on the ways in which empty pesticide containers and remaining pesticides can be stored and disposed of.

(c) The Minister shall review the pesticides authorized before the commencement of this law, taking into account the matters specified in subsection (a) of this article, and shall publish them in the Government Gazette of the Maldives within 6 (six) months from the date of commencement of this law.

11. Amending the Registry of Authorized Pesticides

(a) The Minister has the power to amend the registry of authorized pesticides published under Article 10 of this law. Any amendments made to the registry shall be published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives within a maximum of 10 (ten) days from the date the amendment is made.

(b) In deciding to amend the registry of authorized pesticides under subsection (a) of this article, the objectives of this law, the matters specified in Article 9(a) of this law, and the effects of the amendment on the general health of humans and animals and the environment shall be taken into account.

(c) A new type of pesticide may be added to the registry of authorized pesticides in the following circumstances.

(1) The inability of the types in the registry of authorized pesticides to control a newly emerged or existing pest;
(2) The availability of a less harmful and equally effective pesticide that can be used as a substitute for the types included in the registry of authorized pesticides;
(3) The availability of cheaper alternatives that are equally effective and equally harmful and can be used as a substitute for the types included in the registry of authorized pesticides;

(d) In addition to the circumstances specified in subsection (c) of this article, the Minister has the discretion to add other such types to the registry if they are not more harmful or less effective than the types included in the registry published under Article 10 of this law.

(e) If one of the following circumstances arises in relation to a pesticide included in the registry of authorized pesticides, that pesticide shall be removed from the registry.

(1) Monitoring the use of a type of pesticide or new scientific information shows that the pesticide does not serve the purpose for which it was intended;
(2) Monitoring the use of a type of pesticide or new scientific information shows that the pesticide has or has a high risk of having an adverse effect on health or the environment;
(3) The availability of a less harmful and equally or more effective type of pesticide that can be used as a substitute for the types included in the registry of authorized pesticides;
(4) The removal of that type by an international treaty to which the Maldives is a party due to the occurrence of a situation such as those described in paragraphs (1) to (3) of this subsection, or the taking of measures to control or reduce that type by an international organization of which the Maldives is a member or by other countries.

12. Transitional Matters

With the publication of the registry of authorized pesticides in the Government Gazette of the Maldives, the import, export, and use of types of pesticides not included in that registry in the Maldives shall be prohibited in the following manner.

(a) No orders shall be placed to bring a type not included in the registry from outside the Maldives from the date of publication of the registry;
(b) The import and export of those items into the Maldives shall be prohibited after the expiration of 2 (two) months from the date of publication of the registry;
(c) The sale of those items in the Maldives shall be prohibited after the expiration of 3 (three) months from the date of publication of the registry;
(d) The use of those items shall be prohibited after the expiration of 12 (twelve) months from the date of publication of the registry.
Chapter Four
Pesticide-Related Transactions

13. Use of Pesticides

(a) No person shall use any pesticide contrary to the manner stated in the information leaflet received with the pesticide when it is purchased, or for any purpose other than the purpose stated therein.

(b) No person shall instruct their employee to use a pesticide contrary to the manner stated in the pesticide's information leaflet or for any purpose other than the purpose stated therein.

(c) All persons who use pesticides shall take all necessary safety measures to be safe from the harm that may be caused to humans, animals, and the terrestrial and marine environment by the use of pesticides.

(d) No person shall use pesticides without using protective equipment.

(e) It is the responsibility of all persons who use pesticides to report to the Ministry if any adverse effect is observed as a result of the use of a pesticide.

14. Non-Conforming Types

No pesticide shall be imported, exported, used, or sold if it is believed on reasonable grounds that it has been tampered with, is not included in the registry of authorized pesticides published under Article 10 of this law, or does not fulfill the conditions stated in that registry.

15. Disposal of Pesticides

(a) No person shall dispose of any pesticide or pesticide waste in a manner that may cause harm to the health of humans or animals or to the terrestrial and marine environment, or contrary to the manner prescribed by the relevant authority.

(b) The manner of disposing of pesticides authorized under this law and pesticide waste shall be stated in the regulation made under this law.

16. Packaging and Labeling of Pesticides

(a) No person shall package a pesticide except in a container that meets the following conditions. And, no person shall import, export, transport from one place to another, or sell a pesticide unless it is packaged in such a container.

(1) The container must be such that the effect of the pesticide in the container does not affect the health of humans or animals or the environment when the pesticide is stored or transported from one place to another in it;
(2) The container must have a label on which the information specified in subsection (c) of this article is stated in a way that is easily legible and which is affixed in a way that it cannot be easily removed;
(3) The container must meet other conditions specified in the regulation made under this law.

(b) The label referred to in paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this article shall be written in Dhivehi or English.

(c) The label referred to in paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this article shall include the following information.

(1) Common name and trade name;
(2) Formulation, active ingredient, and concentration;
(3) The plants and pests for which the pesticide is authorized to be used;
(4) The recommended method and rate for using the pesticide;
(5) The equipment to be used when using the pesticide, and the safety measures that can be taken for the protection of the user and the environment;
(6) Pre-harvest interval (PHI);
(7) Signs and symptoms of poisoning;
(8) Information on health and safety measures to be taken when using the pesticide;
(9) Hazard warnings and matters to be paid attention to;
(10) Batch number, date of manufacture, and expiry date;
(11) Name and address of the manufacturer;
(12) If repackaged, the name and address of the repackager.

(d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other article of this law, if a pesticide used in agriculture is used in the Maldives for commercial or any other purpose, the information specified in subsection (c) of this article shall be included in both Dhivehi and English on the container in which the pesticide is packaged.

17. Repackaging

(a) A pesticide in a container may be repackaged if a condition specified in Article 16(a) of this law is not met in that container due to damage to the container in which the pesticide was originally packaged at the time of purchase, import, or manufacture.

(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this article, a pesticide may be repackaged only by persons who have obtained a separate license issued by the Minister, in which the conditions for repackaging are stated, under paragraph (4) of Article 21(a) of this law.

(c) When repackaging a pesticide under subsection (a) of this article, it shall be packaged in a container that meets the conditions specified in Article 16(a) of this law.

18. Storage of Pesticides

(a) No person shall store a pesticide in a place where people live, or in a place where animals are kept, or in a place where food products or animal feed are kept. And the standards for places where pesticides are stored shall be stated in the regulation made under this law.

(b) No person shall store a pesticide except a person to whom a license has been issued from among the licenses mentioned in Article 21 of this law, except for the amount of pesticide specified in the regulation made under this law for use in a field or for plants grown in a house's yard.

(c) If more pesticide is stored than the amount specified in the regulation made under this law, pesticide storage warehouses shall not be located near hospitals, schools, shops, densely populated residential areas, protected areas, or beaches.

(d) Expired pesticides, used containers, and contaminated materials shall be stored until they can be disposed of in accordance with the manner specified in the regulation made under this law.

(e) At the time of commencement of this law, pesticide storage facilities located near the places specified in subsection (c) of this article shall be moved to another location within 1 (one) year from the date of commencement of this law.

19. Transportation from One Place to Another

When transporting pesticides from one place to another by any vehicle, if the vehicle is also carrying food, animal feed, or animals in addition to the pesticide, the pesticides may be transported from one place to another in that vehicle safely in a manner that the effect of the pesticide does not affect the food, animal feed, or animals in the vehicle, in accordance with the manner specified in the regulation made under this law. And such items shall be labeled in a way that it is known that they are pesticides.

20. Prohibition of Pesticide Advertising

It is prohibited for any person to do anything to advertise a pesticide in the Maldives.
Chapter Five
Issuance of Licenses and Permits

21. Issuance of Licenses

(a) Unless otherwise stated in this law, no person shall do any of the following except under a license issued under this law.

(1) Produce pesticides;
(2) Import or export pesticides;
(3) Sell pesticides;
(4) Repackage.

(b) The manner of applying for the license specified in subsection (a) of this article, the conditions of the license, the procedures for applying for a license, and the manner of issuing the license shall be stated in the regulation made under this law.

22. Special Procedure for Import and Export

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law, any type of pesticide may be imported into and exported from the Maldives under this law only by persons who meet the conditions prescribed in the regulation made under this law and who have obtained a license issued by the Minister under Article 21 of this law.

23. Additional Permits

(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this law, the Minister has the power to issue a temporary permit to import and use a pesticide not included in the registry of authorized pesticides, in consultation with the relevant authorities, in order to carry out necessary actions in connection with an emergency, or a newly emerged type of pest, or to solve a temporary problem of the unavailability of a pesticide for a specific type of pest in the market.

(b) The Minister has the power to issue a temporary permit to a research entity to import or use a type not included in the registry of authorized pesticides specified in Article 10 of this law, for the purpose of studying a specific matter, with the advice of the relevant authorities.

(c) The Minister has the power to do the following at any time by a written notice given to a person to whom a temporary permit has been issued under subsections (a) and (b) of this article.

(1) Revoke the permit;
(2) Amend the conditions stated in that permit, or revoke any of its conditions, or prescribe additional conditions.

(d) The manner of applying for the temporary permit specified in subsections (a) and (b) of this article, the conditions under which the permit will be issued, the period for which the permit is issued, and the procedures for issuing the permit shall be stated in the regulation made under this law.

24. Requirements for Applicants for a License

The requirements to be met by a person applying for a license specified in Article 21 of this law shall be included in the regulation on issuing licenses made under this law.

25. Amending or Revoking a License

(a) The Minister has the discretion to amend or revoke a license issued under this law if the circumstances at the time the license was issued have changed, or if the licensee has violated a condition of the license, or in connection with an amendment made to the registry of authorized pesticides under Article 10 of this law.

(b) The procedures to be followed in amending or revoking a license when a situation specified in subsection (a) of this article occurs shall be included in the regulation on issuing licenses made under this law.

26. Record Keeping

(a) The Ministry shall maintain a record of all transactions carried out under the license issued to the persons to whom a license is issued under Article 21 of this law.

(b) The record to be maintained under subsection (a) of this article shall include the name of the pesticide produced, imported, exported, repackaged, or sold under the license issued to that person (common name, active ingredient, and formulation), the type of materials used to package the pesticide, the quantity produced, sold, or purchased, in addition to other information specified in the regulation made under this law.
Chapter Six
Inspections

27. Inspection

The Ministry shall inspect the manner in which pesticides are imported, exported, produced, packaged, repackaged, labeled, stored, sold, used, and disposed of, and the places where such work is carried out, to see if they are in compliance with this law and the regulations made under this law.

28. Pesticide Inspectors

The Minister shall appoint pesticide inspectors to inspect the manner in which the work specified in Article 27 of this law is carried out and the places where such work is carried out.

29. Powers and Duties of Pesticide Inspectors

(a) The pesticide inspectors appointed under Article 28 of this law have the power to do the following.

(1) To inspect the manner in which pesticides are imported, exported, produced, packaged, repackaged, labeled, stored, sold, used, and disposed of, and the places where such work is carried out, to see if the persons to whom a license has been issued under this law are acting in accordance with this law and the regulations made under this law;
(2) To obtain the records to be maintained under this law and the documents related to the transactions carried out under a license obtained under this law, and to make copies of them;
(3) To take samples of pesticides or substances believed to be pesticides that are under the control of any person, and to analyze those substances;
(4) If the inspector believes on reasonable grounds that any act has been or is being committed in violation of this law, to seize the equipment, pesticides, documents, records, or other items that the suspected person is using to commit that act;
(5) If the inspector believes on reasonable grounds that any of the acts specified in this law are being carried out without obtaining the license required under this law, or if any person submits such a case under Article 44(a) of this law, to inspect places other than the place used for residence by the person suspected of violating the law and to obtain the necessary documents, in order to investigate the matter.

(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this article, no pesticide inspector shall enter any place where people live without the permission of the people living there, except under a court order.

(c) An operations manual stating the procedures for using the powers specified in subsection (a) of this article and for dealing with the documents and other items obtained by the pesticide inspectors under that article shall be prepared within 3 (three) months from the date of commencement of this law.

(d) The government shall not be liable for any loss incurred by any person as a result of an act done in accordance with the law by the pesticide inspectors in the performance of their duties under subsection (a) of this article.

(b) Persons who are dissatisfied with an act done by a pesticide inspector under subsection (a) of this article may submit the matter to the Ministry for investigation within a maximum of 10 (ten) days from the date of the incident.

(f) The manner in which persons who are dissatisfied with an act done by a pesticide inspector under subsection (a) of this article will submit a case to the Ministry, and the manner in which the submitted cases will be investigated and action will be taken, shall be stated in the regulation made under this law.

30. Taking Action

(a) If an inspection carried out by pesticide inspectors in the manner specified in Article 29 of this law reveals that an attempt has been made to import or export a pesticide in violation of this law, or if it is found that it has been imported, exported, produced, used, or repackaged in violation of this law, or if information of such an act being committed by any person is received by the Ministry, one of the following actions shall be taken with respect to that pesticide, in accordance with the manner specified in the regulation made under this law.

(1) To order that the type be returned to the country from which it was imported or be disposed of;
(2) To seize that type;
(3) To inform the authority entrusted with the responsibility of disposing of items prohibited to be brought into the Maldives;
(4) To make other decisions based on the consultations held with the ministry entrusted with the responsibility of protecting the environment and the ministry entrusted with the responsibility of disposing of items prohibited to be brought into the Maldives.

(b) An order specified in subsection (a) of this article shall be given by a written notice sent to the owner, or the person who possesses, or the person who maintains, or the person who has control over the pesticide.

(c) The notice given under subsection (a) of this article shall state the manner in which the pesticide must be returned or disposed of within a specific period, and the period within which it must be disposed of.

(d) If the pesticide is not returned or disposed of in the manner specified in the notice within the period of the notice specified in subsection (b) of this article, that item shall be brought under the custody of the Ministry, and the Ministry shall act in the manner instructed by the authorities specified in paragraph (4) of subsection (a) of this article.

(e) The cost incurred in returning an imported pesticide or disposing of that type under this article shall be borne by the person who imported or possessed the pesticide.
Chapter Seven
Offenses and Penalties

31. Working Without a License

(a) It is an offense to do the following except with a license issued under this law.

(1) To produce or repackage pesticides;
(2) To import or export pesticides;
(3) To sell pesticides.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an act specified in subsection (a) of this article is a fine of between MVR 25,000 (twenty-five thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand).

32. Storing Pesticides in Violation of the Law

(a) It is an offense to store a pesticide in a place where people live, or in a place where animals are kept, or in a place where food products or animal feed are kept.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an act specified in subsection (a) of this article is a fine of between MVR 15,000 (fifteen thousand) and MVR 60,000 (sixty thousand).

33. Possessing, Storing, Holding, and Using Pesticides in Violation of the Law

(a) It is prohibited for any person to possess, store, hold, or use a pesticide except in the following circumstances.

(1) It is a type included in the registry of authorized pesticides published under Article 10 of this law; or
(2) It is a type temporarily exempted under Article 23 of this law.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an act specified in subsection (a) of this article is a fine of between MVR 15,000 (fifteen thousand) and MVR 60,000 (sixty thousand).

34. Labeling in Violation of the Law

(a) It is an offense to sell a pesticide without a label or information leaflet containing the information specified in Article 16(c) of this law.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an act specified in subsection (a) of this article is a fine of between MVR 15,000 (fifteen thousand) and MVR 60,000 (sixty thousand).

35. Handling Pesticides in a Harmful Manner

(a) It is an offense to keep a pesticide in a container that is harmful to the health of humans or animals or to the environment during its storage, keeping, and handling.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an act specified in subsection (a) of this article is a fine of between MVR 15,000 (fifteen thousand) and MVR 60,000 (sixty thousand).

36. Importing, Exporting, Selling, or Using an Unauthorized Type

(a) It is an offense to import, export, use, or sell, or to attempt to do any of these things, with a pesticide that has been tampered with, is not included in the registry of authorized pesticides published under this law, or does not meet the conditions stated in that registry.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits, or attempts to commit, or participates in committing an act specified in subsection (a) of this article is a fine of between MVR 15,000 (fifteen thousand) and MVR 60,000 (sixty thousand).

37. Disposing of Pesticides in Violation of the Law

(a) It is an offense to dispose of a pesticide or pesticide waste in a manner that may cause harm to the health of humans or animals or to the terrestrial and marine environment, or contrary to the manner prescribed by the relevant authority.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an act specified in subsection (a) of this article is a fine of between MVR 15,000 (fifteen thousand) and MVR 60,000 (sixty thousand).

38. Obstructing the Enforcement of the Law

(a) No one shall obstruct or hinder a pesticide inspector from carrying out a duty that they are required to perform under this law, or from using a power that they are given or required to use under this law.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an act specified in subsection (a) of this article is a fine of between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 30,000 (thirty thousand).

39. Failure to Keep Records

(a) It is an offense for persons who handle pesticides not to maintain the records that they are required to maintain as specified in this law.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an act specified in subsection (a) of this article is a fine of between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 30,000 (thirty thousand).

40. Transporting Pesticides from One Place to Another in Violation of the Law

(a) It is an offense to transport pesticides from one place to another by vehicle without taking the safety measures specified in the regulation made under this law.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an act specified in subsection (a) of this article is a fine of between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 30,000 (thirty thousand).

41. Advertising Pesticides

(a) It is an offense for any person to do anything to advertise a pesticide.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an act specified in subsection (a) of this article is a fine of between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 30,000 (thirty thousand).

42. Using Pesticides Contrary to the Manner Stated in the Information Leaflet

(a) It is an offense to use a pesticide contrary to the manner stated in the pesticide's information leaflet or for any purpose other than the purpose stated therein, or to order that a pesticide be used in such a manner.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an act specified in subsection (a) of this article is a fine of between MVR 1,000 (one thousand) and MVR 10,000 (ten thousand).

43. Submitting Complaints

(a) Unless otherwise stated in this law, if any person is dissatisfied with any action taken under this law, they may submit a complaint to the Minister to have the matter investigated.

(b) The manner of submitting a complaint to the Minister under this article and the procedure for investigating the matter shall be stated in the regulation made under this law.

(c) A decision made by the Minister in relation to a complaint submitted to the Minister under subsection (a) of this article shall not prejudice the right of the aggrieved party to go to court.

44. Reporting Violations of the Law

(a) If it becomes known that any person is acting in violation of this law and the regulations made under this law, the matter shall be reported to the Ministry.

(b) The procedure for reporting a matter in the manner specified in subsection (a) of this article and the procedure for acting upon receipt of such a report shall be included in the regulation made by the Ministry under this law.
Chapter Eight
Other Matters

45. Service Fee

The Minister has the discretion to charge a service fee for the services provided by the Ministry under this law. The amount of the service fee that can be charged and the principles regarding the charging of the fee shall be stated in the regulation made by the Ministry under this law.

46. Responsibilities to be Fulfilled in Connection with Treaties to which the Maldives is a Party

A responsibility assigned to a specific government ministry in connection with a responsibility that the Maldives must bear under an international treaty to which the Maldives is a party or an international agreement that the Maldives has entered into shall be fulfilled by that ministry even after the commencement of this law.

47. Making Regulations

(a) Unless otherwise stated in this law, the regulations to be made under this law shall be made and enforced by the Ministry. The regulations to be made under this law shall be made and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives within 6 (six) months from the date of commencement of this law.

(b) In addition to the regulations specified in subsection (a) of this article, the Minister has the power to make regulations regarding the following matters.

(1) Regarding increasing public awareness and organizing training on the proper use of pesticides to prevent the dangers of improper use and the harm that may result from it;
(2) Regarding strengthening the relationship between government authorities in controlling pesticides and enforcing the matters specified in this law;
(3) Regarding the promotion of Integrated Pest Management.

48. Commencement of act

This law shall commence on the date on which 6 (six) months have passed from the date on which this law is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

49. Definitions

Unless the context in which a phrase or word is used in this law clearly indicates otherwise, the following phrases and words shall have the meanings given below in relation to those phrases and words.

(a) "Active ingredient" means the biologically active part contained in a pesticide.

(b) "Adulterated pesticide" means a pesticide that has been dealt with in one of the following ways.

(1) The removal of a substance contained in it in whole or in part;
(2) The substitution of a type contained in it in whole or in part;
(3) The addition of another substance to it, or mixing it, or packaging another substance with it, in order to increase its weight or size, or to lower its quality or reduce its strength, or to make it appear to be of a higher quality than its original quality or more valuable than its original price;
(4) The concealment in any way of its low quality or the damage it has sustained;
(5) The addition of any substance contained in it in an amount greater than the amount stated on the label or the amount permitted in the regulation;
(6) Its originality, type, or quality has been affected.

(c) "Advertising" means activities carried out to promote the sale and use of pesticides through writing, electronic means, signboards, items displayed for viewing, gifts, demonstrations, and word of mouth.

(d) "Trade name" means the name used for the trade of a pesticide, including the trademark.

(e) "Formulation" means the form in which the pesticide is packaged, which has been prepared by mixing various substances to achieve the purpose that the pesticide is said to achieve.

(f) "Information leaflet" means a paper containing the details of the information included on the label of a pesticide.

(g) "Inspector" means employees appointed under this law to inspect the manner in which pesticides are imported, exported, produced, packaged, repackaged, labeled, stored, sold, used, and disposed of, and the places where such work is carried out.

(h) "Integrated Pest Management" means the careful consideration of all possible methods of pest control and, after taking them into account, the use of appropriate standards to prevent the increase of pest populations, to maintain pest populations and pesticides and other such substances at an economically acceptable level, and to minimize the risk to the health of humans and animals and the environment.

(i) "Label" means writing, printed material, and drawings that are on or affixed to a pesticide or the things in which a pesticide is packaged, and the things used for packaging when sold at retail.

(j) "Registry of authorized pesticides" means a registry of the types of pesticides that the Minister authorizes to be produced, used, sold, imported into the Maldives, and exported from the Maldives as pesticides.

(k) "Material Safety Data Sheet" means a paper containing information on the important characteristics (mainly the types included in that product) to inform users of the dangers of a product.

(l) "Minister" means the minister of the government ministry entrusted with the responsibility of conducting agricultural affairs in the Maldives.

(m) "Ministry" means the government ministry entrusted with the responsibility of conducting agricultural affairs in the Maldives.

(n) "Pest" means things that hinder the growth of food items and agricultural products or cause damage during those stages, including disease-spreading agents, toxic substances, plants, and animals that cause diseases in humans or animals.

(o) "Pesticide" means any substance or a substance made by mixing many substances, which is intended to be used for the purpose of eliminating and controlling pests for agricultural purposes.

(p) "Pre-harvest interval" means the period prescribed for not using pesticides until the harvesting of those types, in order to prevent pesticide residue from remaining in agricultural products.

(q) "Protective equipment" means special clothing, items, and equipment needed to be adequately protected from the effects of pesticides when handling and using them.

(r) "Repackaging" means the transfer of a pesticide from the container in which it was packaged when purchased to another container (usually a smaller container), for the purpose of resale, in an authorized manner.

(s) "Maximum Residue Level" means the maximum level of pesticide residue that should be present in products produced from agriculture.

(t) "Pesticide waste" means any items discarded as waste that contain any amount of pesticide.

(u) "Agriculture" means the cultivation of grains, vegetables, fruits, and other things obtained from plants for consumption, the cultivation of grains, fruits, vegetables, leafy greens, mushrooms, and plants in farmlands, residential plots, and shelters specially made for agricultural work, the raising and breeding of animals for the purpose of meat and eggs, the processing and packaging of agricultural products to add value to them, the sale of produced agricultural products, the purchase and sale of fertilizers, pesticides, and equipment needed for agricultural work, the control of biological threats to the health of animals and plants, work done to maintain livestock sanitary and phytosanitary standards, and includes the breeding, raising, and cultivation of aquatic living resources, such as aquaculture.

(v) "Aquaculture" means the breeding, raising, cultivating, and keeping of aquatic living resources within the territory of the Maldives and within the maritime zones of the Maldives.

(w) "Agricultural product" means things produced through agriculture, and live or dead fish or parts of fish that are being cultivated or have been cultivated in an aquaculture facility or in the maritime zone of the Maldives.
