Law on the Operation of Sea Vessels
Registration of Sea-going Vessels

1.

(a) Sea-going vessels manufactured in the Maldives and sea-going vessels brought from abroad that are not registered in another country shall not be used in the maritime territory of the Maldives, except for engine testing or entering a harbor under a permit issued by the Ministry, without being registered in accordance with this Law and the regulations made hereunder.

(b) Foreign parties' sea-going vessels not registered outside the Maldives may be operated in the maritime territory of the Maldives after being registered in the Maldives in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article.

(c) The procedures for registering vessels registered outside the Maldives shall be stated in the regulations made under this Law.
Collection of Fees from Sea-going Vessels

2.

(a) The types of vessels from which fees will be collected among the sea-going vessels registered in the Maldives under this Law, the registration fees, the procedures for changing the registration of vessels registered in the name of another party, and all procedures related to the use of such vessels in the Maldives, the circumstances under which sea-going vessels may be fined, and the amounts of fines shall be included in the regulations made under this Law.

(b) The Ministry shall, within 3 (three) months from the commencement of this Law, establish a register containing the information of the vessels registered under Article 1 (a) of this Law in such a way that the details of such vessels can be known.

(c) Sea-going vessels registered at the time of the commencement of this Law shall be considered as vessels registered under this Law.

3.

Sea-going vessels shall have letters and numbers affixed in a manner prescribed by the Ministry.
Operation of Sea-going Vessels

4.

(a) Sea-going vessels shall be operated with due care and in a manner that does not impede other vessels, in accordance with the regulations made under this Law.

(b) Sea-going vessels shall be operated in accordance with this Law, the regulations made hereunder, and the international treaties and agreements to which the Maldives is a party.
Exemptions

5.

Unless otherwise stated in this Law, the following sea-going vessels shall be exempted from this Law. Vessels exempted in this manner shall be registered with the Ministry that uses the vessel.

(a) Vessels operated for the purposes of the security services of the Maldives; and

(b) Military vessels of foreign countries visiting the Maldives and vessels arriving with diplomatic clearance.
Provision of Services by Councils

5-1.

(a) Among the services to be provided by the Ministry under this Law, the services determined by the Ministry to be provided at the atoll level, island level, or city level shall be provided by the council to which that atoll, island, or city belongs, in accordance with the regulations made under this Law.

(b) The services to be provided at the atoll level, island level, or city level as determined by the Ministry under subsection (a) of this Article and the procedures for providing such services shall be stated in the regulations made under this Law.

(c) The Ministry and relevant authorities shall provide the necessary funds, resources, and assistance to the councils in relation to the services referred to in subsection (a) of this Article. And the manner in which the necessary funds, resources, and assistance will be provided to the councils shall be stated in the regulations made under this Law.
Making of Regulations

6.

(a) Unless otherwise stated in this Law, the regulations to be made under this Law shall be made and implemented by the Ministry.

(b) In addition to the matters for which regulations are expressly required to be made under this Law, the Minister shall have the power to make regulations concerning the following matters:

(1) Regarding the standard and quality to which vessels must be built;

(2) Regarding the standard of equipment used on vessels;

(3) Regarding the standard and quality of safety equipment to be on board vessels;

(4) Regarding the standard for fire prevention and firefighting;

(5) Regarding the safety, health, and welfare of the crew;

(6) Regarding the standard of communication equipment;

(7) Regarding the standard for determining the load line of a vessel;

(8) Regarding the standard for determining the tonnage of a vessel;

(9) Regarding the loading and carriage of goods;

(10) Regarding the safety and security of navigation;

(11) Regarding the protection of the marine environment;

(12) Regarding surveying and auditing;

(13) Regarding the issuance of safety certificates and examination certificates;

(14) Regarding the provision of maritime transport services;

(15) Regarding the berthing of foreign-going vessels in the Maldives;

(16) Regarding the training and certification of crew;

(17) Regarding matters related to the licensing of the operation of sea-going vessels;

(18) Regarding employers of seafarers;

(19) Regarding shipping companies;

(20) Regarding the services of shipping agencies;

(21) Regarding matters related to the provision of pilotage services;

(22) Regarding the operation of ports that serve foreign-going vessels;

(23) Regarding port state and flag state control inspections;

(24) Regarding the mortgaging of sea-going vessels;

(25) Regarding the implementation of international treaties and agreements to which the Maldives is a party;

(26) Regarding compensation for damages to a crew member working on a foreign vessel if an accident occurs while the vessel is at sea or in port, or if a crew member dies;

(27) Regarding grounded and sunken vessels.

(c) The Minister shall have the power to impose fines and collect fees under the regulations specified in this Article.

(d) All regulations to be made under this Law shall be made and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives within 3 (three) months from the commencement of this Law.
Definitions

7.

Unless the context otherwise requires in this Law, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given below:

(a) "Ministry" means the Ministry to which all matters relating to maritime transport have been assigned.

(b) "Sea-going vessel" means vessels used for the transportation of persons and goods from one place to another by sea or water. This definition also includes barges, pontoons, tugboats, hydrofoils, flight ships, hovercraft, offshore platforms, non-motorized vessels, and submarines.

(c) "Minister" means the Minister of the Ministry to which all matters relating to maritime transport have been assigned.

(d) "Island Council" means the Island Council as defined in Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act of the Maldives).

(e) "City Council" means the City Council as defined in Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act of the Maldives).

(f) "Atoll Council" means the Atoll Council as defined in Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act of the Maldives).

The following articles appear to be from a different or older law but were included in the provided text.

5.

Motorized vessels operating within the Maldives shall be operated to the right of the person driving the oncoming vessel. If overtaking a moving vessel from behind, the overtaking shall be done from the right side of the vessel ahead, after giving an appropriate signal.

6.

If a motorized vessel slows down or stops while in motion, a signal shall be given to the vessels following behind. And, if turning, the turn shall be made after giving way to other vessels.

7.

Every motorized vessel operating at sea shall have a light fixed at its bow in a manner that it is visible from a distance. If operating between 6 p.m. and 6 a.m., the light shall be on. And it shall have adequate brightness. Between 6 p.m. and 6 a.m., if something is being carried on the bowsprit of a vessel, there shall be a lit lamp at the front end of the object on the bowsprit so that it is visible from a distance.

8.

If a sea-going vessel is operated without paying the fee, the person who operated it shall be fined an amount between the fee for 1 month and the fee for 1 year for that vessel.

9.

For any violation of this law for which a fine is not specified, a fine of between MVR 5/- and MVR 50/- shall be imposed, depending on the gravity of the offense.

10.

Sea-going vessels shall be operated within the political territory of the Maldives in accordance with the regulations established by the Ministry of Transport and Communication.

11.

The President of the Republic is exempted from this law.

In this law, the meaning of "vessel" is: all types of things made for traveling from one place to another on the surface of the water or under the sea.
