Law on Presidential Commissions

Chapter One

Introduction

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This is the law to determine the responsibilities of commissions formed by the President of the Republic to conduct various investigations or to advise the President on national issues under Article 115 (o) of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives, and to establish the principles for organizing and conducting the work of such commissions.

(b) This law shall be cited as the "Presidential Commissions Act".

Purpose

2. The purpose of this law is to outline the powers and to establish the responsibilities of the commissions formed by the President of the Republic under Article 115 (o) of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives to conduct various investigations or to advise the President on national issues.

Glossary of Terms

3. In this law, "Commission" or "Commissions" refers to the commissions formed by the President of the Republic under Article 115 (o) of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives to conduct various investigations or to advise the President on national issues.

Work of the Commission

4. The purpose and responsibilities of a commission formed by the President of the Republic under Article 115 (o) of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives shall be determined by a resolution formulated by the President under Article 115 (o) of the Constitution.

Chapter Two

Formation of Commissions

Composition of the Commission

5.
(a) A Presidential Commission shall consist of a member or members appointed by the President at the time.

(b) The President shall appoint and dismiss the members appointed under subsection (a) of this article. The President also has the power to increase or decrease the number of members of the Commission.

Powers of the Commission

6. The Commission shall have the power to do the following in order to fulfill its responsibilities:

(a) To formulate the rules of procedure of the Commission;

(b) To seek the assistance of all state institutions and other parties in fulfilling the responsibilities of the Commission and in the investigations conducted by the Commission;

(c) To bring in relevant foreign parties and seek the assistance of foreign experts to assist in the work and investigations of the Commission;

(d) To investigate criminal cases; and if a criminal case needs to be investigated in the course of the Commission's work, to use the powers of a law enforcement agency as stipulated in the Criminal Procedure Code.

(e) Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, the Commission shall have the power to apply to the court for arrest warrants and all other court orders related to criminal investigations. Law enforcement agencies shall enforce such orders.

Summoning and Obtaining Evidence

7.
(a) The Commission shall have the power to summon and question any person who the Commission deems necessary to be present in connection with a case being investigated by the Commission, and to demand the production of any document or other evidence required in connection with a case being investigated by the Commission, and to order the submission of such items held by various parties.

(b) If a person to whom an order is issued under subsection (a) of this article violates that order, that person is committing a criminal offense.

Rights of the Accused

8. In cases investigated and examined by the Commission, every person accused shall have the right to speak in their defense, to submit documents, to present witnesses, to have the assistance of a legal counsel whenever necessary, and in cases involving a criminal accusation, to have all the rights afforded to persons accused of a crime under the Criminal Procedure Code.

Chapter Three

Investigating and Taking Action on Cases

Procedure after Investigation of a Case

9.
(a) Upon completion of the investigation of the criminal components of cases investigated by a commission established under Article 115 (o) of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives, the Commission shall have the discretion, with the advice of the President, to send such cases to the Prosecutor General's Office for prosecution.

(b) If cases investigated by a commission established under Article 115 (o) of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives include matters of seeking compensation for civil damages and recovery of property and money, the Commission shall have the discretion, with the advice of the President, to send such cases to the Attorney General's Office to take necessary action and to prosecute.

(c) In matters other than those mentioned in subsections (a) or (b) of this article, the Commission shall prepare a report of its findings and send it to the President of the Republic.

Chapter Four

Miscellaneous Matters

Special Privilege of the Commission in Investigating Cases

10.
(a) Unless otherwise specified in the presidential decree establishing a commission, the cases specified in the presidential decree to be investigated by the commission shall be investigated by that commission.

(b) If any other party has conducted any investigation in a type of case specified in a presidential decree to be investigated by the Commission, that party shall, upon the request of the Commission, share with the Commission the information, findings, documents under its custody, evidence, proof, and other matters obtained from that investigation or otherwise.

Administrative Affairs of the Commission

11. The Ministry of Finance shall, on the advice of the President, arrange for the following matters necessary for the functioning of the Commission:

(a) Salaries and allowances of the members of the Commission;

(b) Salaries and allowances of the employees appointed by the Commission;

(c) An office for the Commission to carry out its work and the budget of the Commission.

Secondment of Staff for the Work of the Commission

12.
(a) If the Commission requests the temporary secondment of an employee working in a state or government agency to carry out the work of an investigation of a Commission, the employee shall be released from the work of the office in which the employee is working. The salary and allowances for the period during which the seconded employees work for the Commission shall be paid by that Commission.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this article, if an employee requested by the Commission to be seconded has an objection to working for that Commission, that employee shall have the opportunity to decline to go to work for that Commission.

Confidentiality

13.
(a) While the investigations conducted by the Commission are ongoing, all information relating to the investigations shall be confidential and privileged, except in circumstances determined by the Commission.

(b) The agency to which a case is sent shall establish special procedures to be followed for maintaining the confidentiality of all information and documents contained in cases sent for prosecution and action, and shall make arrangements for that purpose.

Protection

14. No civil or criminal action shall be brought against any member or employee of any such commission for any act done or omitted in good faith in an official capacity, in accordance with the law, or within the scope of a power conferred by law, in the performance of the Commission's duties and in the exercise of the powers conferred on the Commission.

Financial Statement

15. A statement comprising the accounts of property and money in the ownership of the members of the Commission, their business interests, income, and debts shall be prepared and submitted to the Auditor General in accordance with the principles determined by the Auditor General as follows:

(a) Upon appointment as a member of the Commission;

(b) Once every year;

(c) Upon leaving the membership of the Commission.

Resignation

16. When a member of a Commission wishes to resign from his or her position, he or she shall state this in a letter and submit it to the President of the Republic, and upon receipt of the letter by the President of the Republic, the member of the Commission shall be deemed to have vacated that position.

Not Investigating a Case in which a Member has an Interest

17.
(a) No member of the Commission shall participate in any way in the investigation or decision of a case in which that member has a personal interest, role, financial benefit, or any other benefit. And even if it was not previously known that a case being investigated by the Commission is a case in which a member of the Commission has such an interest, role, financial benefit, or any other benefit, upon becoming aware of it, the member shall inform the President of the Commission that the case is one in which the member has an interest, and shall recuse himself or herself from investigating that case or from making any decision that needs to be made in relation to that case.

(b) No employee appointed by the members of the Commission to investigate cases shall participate in any way in the investigation of cases where there is a conflict of interest for that employee.

Financial Matters

18. The funds necessary for the Commission to fully perform its duties shall be disbursed to the Commission from the state treasury each year under a budget approved by the People's Majlis. For that purpose, the Commission shall, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, prepare the budget of the Commission and submit it to the People's Majlis each year along with the state budget.

Annual Report

19. Within 3 (three) months of the end of each financial year after the commencement of the Commission's work, the Commission shall prepare and send to the President of the Republic and the People's Majlis an annual report containing details of the Commission's activities and work during the past year.

Auditing of Income and Expenditure

20. The accounts of the Commission's income, expenditure, property, and financial liabilities shall be written and maintained and audited in accordance with the regulations made by the Commission, with the advice of the Auditor General, and the financial statement prepared thereafter shall be sent to the President of the Republic and the People's Majlis with the annual report each year.

Interim Report

21.
(a) The Commission shall send a report containing the matters stated in subsection (b) of this article to the President of the Republic once every 3 (three) months during the period of its operation.

(b) The report mentioned in subsection (a) of this article shall include the following:

(1) The work done by the Commission;

(2) Details of the cases being investigated by the Commission;

(3) The cases decided by the Commission and the manner in which those cases were decided;

(4) Information relating to the administrative functioning of the Commission.

(c) In addition to the report mentioned in subsection (a) of this article, upon the completion of the Commission's work, a report containing the following matters shall be submitted to the President of the Republic:

(1) A full detail of the work done by the Commission;

(2) Each case investigated or inquired into by the Commission shall be stated separately, with details of the case, the issues identified in that case, and the way the case was decided;

(3) Each case investigated or inquired into by the Commission shall be stated separately, with the recommendations proposed by the Commission in relation to that case.

(d) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of this article, in a special situation, the Commission shall have the discretion to submit a special report on that situation to the President of the Republic if it deems it necessary.

Dissolution of the Commission

22. A Presidential Commission formed at the time shall be dissolved upon the completion of its work or for any other reason, by a resolution of the President to dissolve the Commission, and upon the publication of that resolution in the Government Gazette.

Making and Enforcing Regulations

23.
(a) The regulations to be made by the Commissions under this law shall be made and enforced by that Commission.

(b) The regulations to be made by the Commissions under this law shall be made and made public within 3 (three) months of the formation of that Commission.

Commencement of this Law

24. This law shall come into force on the date of its passing, ratification, and publication in the Government Gazette of the Republic of Maldives.
