Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing

Part One
Introduction

Chapter One
Introduction and Purpose

1. Introduction and Name

(a) This is the law to prohibit and prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism, and to state other related principles.

(b) This law shall be cited as the "Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing."

2. Purpose

The main purposes of this law are stated below.

(a) To prevent and prohibit money laundering and the financing of terrorism;

(b) To establish and implement policies and procedures to prevent money laundering, the financing of terrorism, and related offenses;

(c) To establish and implement procedures to identify activities of money laundering and financing of terrorism;

(d) To identify persons who carry out activities of money laundering and financing of terrorism, investigate such cases, and take action against such persons;

(e) To determine the role and responsibilities of financial institutions and reporting entities, and the role and responsibilities of supervising and regulating bodies, in relation to the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism.

Chapter Two
Glossary of Concepts

3. Glossary

(a) The main concepts upon which this law is based are stated in this chapter of this law.

(b) The meanings of the main words and phrases contained in this law are stated in Article 77 of this law.

4. Basis of Concepts

The concepts stated in this law are set forth in this chapter for the purpose of maintaining the integrity of this law and to facilitate the fullest achievement of the purpose of this law. Every article of this law shall be read in a manner that does not narrow these concepts.

5. Money Laundering

"Money laundering" means:

(a)
(1) The conversion or transfer of property by any person, knowing or having reasonable grounds to suspect that such property is the proceeds of a criminal act, for the purpose of concealing or disguising its illicit origin or of assisting any person who is involved in the commission of the predicate offense to evade the legal consequences of his or her action; or

(2) The concealment or disguise by any person of the true nature, source, location, disposition, movement, or rights with respect to, or ownership of property, knowing or having reasonable grounds to suspect that such property is the proceeds of a criminal act; or

(3) The acquisition, possession, or use of property by any person, knowing or having reasonable grounds to suspect that such property is the proceeds of a criminal act; or

(4) Aiding, abetting, facilitating, encouraging, participating in any form in the commission of, planning, or attempting to commit any of the acts described in subsections (1), (2), and (3) of this Article.

(b) For the purposes of this law, a person who commits a predicate offense to money laundering shall also be deemed to have committed the offense of money laundering.

6. Financing of Terrorism

"Financing of terrorism" means the willful provision or collection of funds, by any means, directly or indirectly, with the intention that they should be used or in the knowledge that they are to be used, in whole or in part, in order to carry out a terrorist act by a terrorist or a terrorist organization. The offense of financing of terrorism shall be deemed to have been committed even if there is no link to a specific terrorist act, or if the funds were not used to carry out a specific terrorist act.

7. Predicate Offense to Money Laundering

"Predicate offense to money laundering" means any of the following offenses from which proceeds of crime, as defined in this law, may be derived by the offender. This includes offenses committed outside the Maldives. However, an offense committed outside the Maldives shall be considered a predicate offense to money laundering for the purposes of this law only if the act is an offense under the law of the country where it was committed and would also be an offense under the law of the Maldives if it had been committed in the Maldives.

(a) The offense of terrorism;

(b) The offense of financing of terrorism;

(c) The offense of drug trafficking;

(d) The offense of human trafficking;

(e) The offense of arms trafficking;

(f) The offense of counterfeiting coin or currency notes;

(g) The offense of insider trading;

(h) The offense of corruption;

(i) All offenses committed through organized criminal groups;

(j) In addition to the offenses specified in subsections (a) to (i) of this Article, any offense designated as a serious criminal offense in any other law.

(k) The offense of participating in or aiding and abetting the commission of any of the offenses specified in subsections (a) to (j) of this Article.

8. Proceeds of Crime

"Proceeds of crime" means any money or property derived or obtained, directly or indirectly, within or outside the Maldives, from the commission of any offense designated as a crime in a law of the Maldives. This includes property obtained from or converted into such money or property, and property derived from the investment of such property.

9. Property Used to Commit a Crime

"Property used to commit a crime" means property used or intended to be used in any manner for the commission of one or more offenses. In this regard, even if only a part of the property was used or intended to be used in the commission of an offense, that property shall be included in the definition of property used to commit a crime.

10. Controlled Delivery

"Controlled delivery" means, for the purpose of investigating money laundering offenses or terrorism financing offenses and identifying the persons who commit such offenses, allowing the entry into the Maldives, the delivery to its destination, or the exit from the Maldives of a consignment and money related to an offense designated as a crime in this law, or items believed to be such consignment or money, under the full supervision of the competent authorities.

11. Money or Property

"Money" or "property" means assets of every kind, including movable and immovable property. It also includes the ownership of any such property, and any other right, interest, and benefit created or arising in connection with any such property. This includes legal documents or instruments that indicate ownership of or an interest in such property, such as bank credit, traveler's checks, bank checks, money orders, shares, financial securities, bonds, bank drafts, and letters of credit.

12. Organized Criminal Group

"Organized criminal group" means any group of three or more persons acting in concert with a pre-arranged structure for the purpose of obtaining, directly or indirectly, a financial or other material benefit by committing a serious criminal offense or offenses.

13. Terrorist Act

"Terrorist act" means any act of terrorism as defined in the relevant law on prohibiting and preventing terrorism.

14. A Terrorist

"A terrorist" means any of the following persons:

(a) Any person who, directly or indirectly, willfully commits or attempts to commit any terrorist act;

(b) Any person who participates in terrorist acts;

(c) Any person who plans terrorist acts or commits terrorist acts through another person;

(d) Any person who facilitates the commission of a planned terrorist act by any group acting for the purpose of committing a terrorist act; or any person who, knowing that the purpose of such a group is to commit terrorist acts, assists such a group with the intention of committing such acts;

(e) Any person designated as a terrorist under Article 52 of this law.

15. Terrorist Organization

"Terrorist organization" means any of the following organizations:

(a) Any organization that, directly or indirectly, willfully commits or attempts to commit any terrorist act;

(b) Any organization that participates in terrorist acts;

(c) An organization that plans terrorist acts or commits terrorist acts through another person;

(d) Any organization that facilitates the commission of a planned terrorist act by any group acting for the purpose of committing a terrorist act, or any organization that, knowing that the purpose of such a group is to commit terrorist acts, assists such a group with the intention of committing such acts;

(e) Any organization designated as a terrorist organization under Article 52 of this law.

Part Two
Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism

Chapter Three
Preventive Measures

16. Identification of Customers by Reporting Entities

(a) In conducting transactions, reporting entities shall verify the identity of customers and third parties acting on their behalf in the following circumstances, using reliable identification data as determined by the Maldives Monetary Authority.

(1) When establishing a business relationship;

(2) Except for the relationships specified in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, when a customer requests to conduct the following transactions:

(i) Transactions involving an amount of money equal to or exceeding the amount specified by the Maldives Monetary Authority in regulations made under this law; if the total amount of a transaction is not known at the time of the transaction, the identity of the person who requested the transaction shall be verified when the amount of the transaction becomes known or when the total amount of the transactions equals the amount specified by the Maldives Monetary Authority in regulations made under this law.

(ii) Transferring money abroad or within the Maldives.

(3) When there is suspicion about the completeness of previously provided information about the customer or when there is doubt about the authenticity of such information;

(4) When there is suspicion of money laundering or financing of terrorism.

(b) Reporting entities shall obtain information about the purpose and nature of the business relationships they maintain with other parties.

(c) To obtain and verify the complete information of an individual, reporting entities shall obtain the individual's full name, address, date of birth, island of birth, and Maldivian national identity card number or work permit number or passport number.

(d) To obtain and verify the complete information of a legal person, reporting entities shall obtain its business name, head office address, information of directors, evidence of registration or evidence indicating its legal status, the manner of its legal formation, its articles of association and bylaws, and its registration number.

(e) To obtain and verify the complete information of a legal arrangement, reporting entities shall obtain the names of the trustee, settlor, and beneficiary of an express trust or other such arrangement.

(f) Reporting entities shall take reasonable measures to obtain and verify the complete information of the beneficial owner. In this regard, the persons from whom information is to be obtained include individuals who have a controlling interest in a legal person and individuals who manage and maintain such a person.

(g) When a reporting entity obtains information under subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f) of this Article, if it is certain or suspected that the customer is not obtaining the service for his or her own use, all reasonable steps shall be taken to obtain and verify the complete information of the person or persons to whom such transaction relates.

(h) Reporting entities shall exercise reasonable due diligence in their business relationships with other parties. And reporting entities shall monitor the transactions conducted with them to verify that the information on the business transactions conducted by the customers, their risk profiles, and, where necessary, the source of their funds, is consistent with the information available to the reporting entities.

(i) When a reporting entity conducts a business relationship or a business transaction with any person and that person is not present to provide his or her information, the reporting entity shall take reasonable measures to reduce the opportunity for money laundering and financing of terrorism.

(j) Reporting entities shall determine whether a customer or beneficial owner is a politically exposed person. And if such a person is found to be a politically exposed person:

(1) The approval of the senior management of the reporting entity shall be obtained before establishing a business relationship with that person.

(2) All reasonable steps shall be taken to ascertain the source of that person's funds or wealth or financial standing or affluence.

(3) The business relationship with that person shall be strengthened and regularly monitored.

(k) If a financial institution operating in the Maldives maintains a correspondent banking relationship with a foreign financial institution, the following shall be done to obtain and verify the complete information of the foreign financial institution.

(1) Obtain information to determine the nature of the activities conducted by the foreign financial institution;

(2) Assess the public perception of the foreign financial institution and the extent to which it is supervised, based on publicly available information;

(3) Obtain the approval of senior management before establishing a correspondent banking relationship with the foreign institution;

(4) Determine in writing the responsibilities and obligations of the foreign financial institution and the Maldivian financial institution in relation to the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism;

(5) Review and study the measures taken by the foreign institution to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism; and

(6) In cases where payments are made through an account, ensure that the foreign institution has obtained and verified the complete information of its customer, has established a system for proper monitoring of the customer, and has the ability to provide the customer's information upon request.

(l) If the requirements of subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), and (g) of this Article are not met by a reporting entity, it shall not conduct or establish any business relationship. And in cases where reporting entities are required to report such matters under this law, the Financial Intelligence Unit shall be notified.

(m) No financial institution shall maintain an account that does not belong to a specific person or an account in a name that is clearly not attributable to any person.

17. Special Circumstances Requiring Identification

(a) It is not mandatory for insurance companies and insurance brokers to obtain the complete information of persons who enter into pension insurance contracts with them under an employment agreement or in connection with the professional work of an insured person. This is as long as such a contract does not contain a self-surrender clause and the contract is not used as collateral for a loan.

(b) When real estate dealers conduct a real estate transaction, they shall obtain the complete information of the parties involved in the transaction as specified in Article 16 of this law.

(c) When dealers in jewelry, precious metals, and other precious goods receive cash payments in transactions with their customers in an amount equal to or exceeding the amount specified by the Maldives Monetary Authority in regulations made under this law, they shall obtain the information of that person as specified in Article 16 of this law.

(d) If legal practitioners, notaries, accountants, and independent professionals in the legal field conduct transactions for any person in connection with the following matters or assist in the preparation for such transactions, they shall obtain the complete information of that person as specified in Article 16 of this law.

(1) Buying and selling real estate;

(2) Managing money, financial securities, or other assets;

(3) Maintaining a bank account, savings account, or financial securities account;

(4) Arranging matters related to funds and other things received for the establishment, operation, or maintenance of a company; or

(5) Establishing, operating, or maintaining a legal person or other legal arrangement and buying and selling business entities.

(e) If independent accountants, auditors, and tax advisors conduct transactions for any person or assist in the preparation for such transactions, they shall obtain the complete information of that person as specified in Article 16 of this law.

(f) If trust and company service providers, other than financial institutions, provide the following services to a third party on a commercial basis, they shall obtain the complete information of that person as specified in Article 16 of this law.

(1) Acting as an agent for the formation, registration, or operation of legal persons; or acting as a director or secretary of a company or a partner of a partnership; or acting in such a capacity in any other legal person or arranging for another person to act in such a capacity;

(2) Providing a registered office, business address, office space, or an address for receiving correspondence or an administrative address for a company, partnership, or any other legal person or legal arrangement;

(3) Acting as a trustee of an express trust or arranging for another person to act as such a trustee;

(4) Acting as a nominee shareholder of a company or arranging for another person to act as such a nominee shareholder.

18. Responsibilities of Providers of Money or Value Transfer Services

(a) Reporting entities that provide money or value transfer services shall obtain and verify the following information of the customers of money or value transfer services. And that information shall be included in the message or form used for the transfer. And in cases where there is no account number, a special reference number shall be given to those transactions.

(1) Full name;

(2) Address;

(3) Maldivian national identity card number or passport number or work permit number;

(4) Account number; and

(5) If necessary, the name of the financial institution from which the originator of the transfer obtained the transfer service.

(b) In money or value transfers involving three or more financial institutions, if the institutions specified in subsection (a) of this Article participate as intermediaries, they shall maintain the information specified in subsection (a) of this Article in full.

(c) The Maldives Monetary Authority has the authority to make regulations regarding batch transfers made as money or value transfers from one country to another, and regarding money or value transfers from one island to another in the Maldives or within an island in the Maldives.

(d) In transfers made in connection with transactions conducted using a credit card or debit card, if the card number is included, the information specified in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article need not be obtained. And in transfers made between financial institutions, where both the originator and the beneficiary are financial institutions transacting in their own names, the information specified in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article need not be obtained.

(e) When an institution specified in subsection (a) of this Article receives a money or value transfer and the complete information of the originator of the transfer is not available, all possible steps shall be taken to obtain such information from the institution that requested the money or value transfer or from the beneficiary. And if such information cannot be completed, the transfer shall not be accepted. And the Financial Intelligence Unit shall be reported.

19. Giving Special Attention to Monitoring Certain Transactions

(a) If transactions that are different from normal transactions, transactions involving unusually large amounts, and transactions conducted in unusual ways appear to be transactions without an economic purpose or a legally permitted purpose, reporting entities shall pay special attention when conducting such transactions.

(b) Reporting entities shall keep written records of the information about transactions such as those specified in subsection (a) of this Article and the complete information of the parties involved in those transactions. Those documents shall be kept in accordance with Article 20 of this law. And upon request for such information by the Financial Intelligence Unit or a supervisory body or an investigative body or a law enforcement body, that information shall be provided to that body.

(c) If a person conducting a transaction with a reporting entity is a resident of a country that does not comply with international standards for the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, reporting entities shall pay special attention to business relationships and transactions with that person. The persons referred to in this Article include legal persons. And the Financial Intelligence Unit shall inform reporting entities about such countries.

20. Record Keeping

Reporting entities shall keep records of the following information. Such records shall be kept in a manner that allows for the immediate provision of that information to the Financial Intelligence Unit or a supervisory body or an investigative body or a law enforcement body upon request.

(a) Copies of documents obtained in accordance with this chapter to verify the identity of a customer or beneficial owner or agent, and documents related to business transactions, account files, and other various documents exchanged in connection with the business, shall be kept for a period of at least 5 (five) years from the termination of the business relationship with those parties. And

(b) Information obtained in accordance with this chapter to ascertain how a customer has conducted a transaction shall be kept for a period of at least 5 (five) years from the date of the transaction.

21. Implementation of Programs by Reporting Entities to Prevent Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism

(a) To prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism, reporting entities shall plan and implement internal programs that include the following.

(1) To strengthen the procedures for hiring employees, establish internal policies, procedures, and controls, and establish methods for management to ensure compliance with those procedures, and to establish sound procedures for screening them;

(2) To provide continuous training to make employees and officials aware of money laundering and financing of terrorism activities and related transactions, and to provide guidance on how to act in such situations;

(3) To conduct internal audits to ensure that the measures required to implement the matters specified in this law are being taken, and to assess the effectiveness of those measures.

(b) To ensure that the activities of reporting entities are conducted in accordance with this law, each reporting entity shall have a compliance officer at the management level.

22. Compliance with the Provisions of this Law by Foreign Subsidiaries and Branches

Financial institutions shall ensure that their subsidiaries and branches established in foreign countries comply with all the matters specified in Articles 16 to 21 of this law. If the law of the country in which such subsidiaries or branches are established prevents them from fulfilling their obligations under this law, the financial institution shall inform the supervisory body.

Chapter Four
Non-Profit Organizations, Providers of Money or Value Transfer Services, and Designated Non-Financial Businesses and Professions

23. Non-Profit Organizations, Providers of Money or Value Transfer Services, and Designated Non-Financial Businesses and Professions

(a) If the collection and receipt of money or the transfer of money are part of the work of a non-profit organization, each such organization shall be properly monitored by the Ministry of Home Affairs. And the Ministry of Home Affairs shall make and implement the necessary regulations to prevent the financing of terrorism through such organizations.

(b) Providers of money or value transfer services shall be fully monitored and supervised by the Maldives Monetary Authority.

(c) Persons wishing to provide money or value transfer services shall be required by the Maldives Monetary Authority to obtain a license in accordance with the conditions specified in the relevant regulations on providing money or value transfer services before starting to provide such services.

(d) The Maldives Monetary Authority shall determine the main conditions for the provision of services by providers of money or value transfer services. And it shall regularly inspect the business operations and conduct on-site examinations.

(e) Any person shall operate as a designated non-financial business or profession only after registering with the relevant authority in accordance with the conditions and terms specified in the relevant law and regulations.

Chapter Five
Other Preventive Measures

24. Requirement to Report Information on Cash and Other Bearer Negotiable Instruments Taken Out of or Brought into the Maldives

(a) Any individual entering or leaving the Maldives who brings into or takes out of the Maldives cash or bearer negotiable instruments in an amount of Rufiyaa or its equivalent in foreign currency equal to or exceeding the amount specified by the Maldives Monetary Authority in regulations made under this law shall report the amount of such money to the Maldives Customs Service.

(b) Upon receipt of the information specified in subsection (a) of this Article by the Maldives Customs Service, that information shall be sent to the Financial Intelligence Unit by the Maldives Customs Service.

(c) If there is suspicion that cash or a bearer negotiable instrument that should have been reported under subsection (a) of this Article but was not reported is related to an act of money laundering or an act of financing of terrorism, or if false information was given in reporting as per subsection (a) of this Article, the Maldives Customs Service has the power to seize the entire cash or bearer negotiable instrument. And in seizing such cash or bearer negotiable instrument, the person and the items under his or her control may be inspected by Customs.

(d) In conducting inspections under this Article, Customs shall act in accordance with the procedures specified in the Customs Law.

(e) When a person is questioned about the source of money or a bearer negotiable instrument seized under subsection (c) of this Article, it is a requirement of this law for that person to provide information about that property or money.

(f) The procedures for taking administrative action against persons who violate the reporting obligation under subsection (a) of this Article, and the procedures for dealing with money or bearer negotiable instruments seized under subsection (c) of this Article, shall be specified in the regulations made by the Maldives Customs Service under this law.

Chapter Six
Disclosure of Information on Financial Transactions

25. Prohibition of Operating Banks Without Establishing an Office in the Maldives

(a) No bank shall be operated in the Maldives except by establishing an office in the Maldives and after obtaining a license issued by the Maldives Monetary Authority.

(b) A financial institution operating in the Maldives shall not establish a business relationship with a bank that is registered in a foreign country but does not have an office in that country and is not regulated by the banking regulatory authority of that country. And if a business relationship with such a bank was previously established, that relationship shall not be continued after the commencement of this law.

26. Disclosure of Information on Legal Persons and Legal Arrangements

(a) Legal persons established in the Maldives shall maintain adequate, accurate, and up-to-date information on their beneficial owners and their control structure.

(b) Trust and company service providers shall obtain, verify the accuracy of, and maintain information on the beneficial owners and control structure of legal persons established in the Maldives. And they shall ensure that the information is up-to-date.

(c) Trust and company service providers shall obtain, verify the accuracy of, and maintain adequate information on the beneficial owners and controllers of legal arrangements established in the Maldives, especially the settlor, trustee, and beneficiary of express trusts. And they shall ensure that the information is up-to-date.

(d) The information required to be maintained under subsection (c) of this Article includes such information related to legal arrangements established in a foreign country that is maintained by trust and company service providers in the Maldives.

(e) Upon request by a court of law of the Maldives, a supervisory body, an investigative body, a law enforcement body, or the Financial Intelligence Unit, the information specified in subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this Article shall be provided by the persons specified in those subsections.

Part Three
Identification of Acts of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism

Chapter Seven
Financial Intelligence Unit

27. Financial Intelligence Unit

(a) Upon the commencement of this law, a unit named the "Financial Intelligence Unit" shall be established in the Maldives Monetary Authority. That unit shall be the national central agency for receiving, analyzing, and disseminating information related to money laundering activities, terrorism financing activities, and proceeds of crime.

(b) The head of the Financial Intelligence Unit shall be appointed by the Governor.

(c) The Financial Intelligence Unit shall do the following.

(1) Receive reports submitted by various parties under this law, information provided to the unit by foreign agencies, and information given by a law enforcement agency or any other government agency or any other person to the Financial Intelligence Unit on suspicion that a transaction is related to money laundering or financing of terrorism or proceeds of crime;

(2) Analyze and review the information and reports specified in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph;

(3) Examine reporting entities;

(4) Collect statistics, records, and other documents;

(5) Provide guidance to reporting entities on obtaining complete information of customers, on record keeping, on reporting, and on methods for identifying suspicious transactions; and

(6) Analyze the information or reports received under this law and regularly inform reporting entities and other relevant agencies of the results.

(d) The Financial Intelligence Unit has the power to do the following.

(1) To instruct reporting entities to take necessary measures to act in accordance with this law in relation to any information or report received, or to facilitate an investigation to be conducted by the Financial Intelligence Unit or a law enforcement agency or an investigative body;

(2) To provide information collected under subsection (c) of this Article to relevant authorities in the Maldives or abroad, and to advise relevant authorities based on the information received by the Financial Intelligence Unit;

(3) To conduct training programs for reporting entities on obtaining complete information of customers, on record keeping, on reporting, and on methods for identifying suspicious transactions;

(4) To conduct studies on changes in the methods of conducting money laundering activities and terrorism financing activities, on methods for identifying such activities and acts, and on measures that can be taken to prevent such activities; and

(5) To conduct programs to provide information to the public and raise awareness about money laundering activities and terrorism financing activities.

28. Power to Obtain Information

(a) To carry out the work of the Financial Intelligence Unit in connection with any report received by the unit, the unit has the power to obtain additional information from any individual or legal person that it deems necessary to be obtained under Article 16 of this law.

(b) To fully carry out its work, the Financial Intelligence Unit has the full power to enter the premises of reporting entities and to inspect and analyze the information collected by them or under their control.

(c) The Financial Intelligence Unit has the power to obtain any information that it believes to be information related to a money laundering activity, a terrorism financing activity, or proceeds of crime, even if such information has not been publicly published. The information thus obtained includes information stored in databases and information available from other commercially used databases.

(d) For the purposes of this law, the Financial Intelligence Unit has the power to obtain information maintained by government agencies, investigative bodies, law enforcement bodies, and other supervisory agencies. The information thus obtained includes information stored in government-maintained databases.

(e) If the Financial Intelligence Unit requests information under subsections (a), (c), and (d) of this Article, every person shall provide that information to the unit in the manner and within the period specified by the unit.

(f) Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, the Financial Intelligence Unit, supervisory bodies, and law enforcement bodies may provide assistance in exchanging information related to an offense of money laundering or financing of terrorism or proceeds of crime under an agreement or other arrangement between them.

(g) If a foreign Financial Intelligence Unit requests information specified in subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this Article, all necessary steps to collect or obtain that information shall be taken by the Financial Intelligence Unit.

29. Actions to be Taken in Relation to a Report of a Suspicious Activity

(a) If it is suspected that information received by the Financial Intelligence Unit is related to a money laundering activity, a terrorism financing activity, or a thing obtained through crime, the Financial Intelligence Unit shall send the information to the law enforcement body or the investigative body. In sending such information, the name of the institution that provided the information to the Financial Intelligence Unit shall not be included. The enforcement or investigative body shall decide on the course of action or the measures to be taken in the matter, taking into account the information sent by the unit.

(b) If the Financial Intelligence Unit finds that a reporting entity has been negligent in doing anything required under this law or is acting contrary to this law, the relevant supervisory body shall be informed.

30. Structure of the Unit

The Financial Intelligence Unit established under Article 27 of this law is a unit that has full independence in deciding on matters included in its responsibilities, and has full independence in making its expenditures in accordance with the budget allocated to it.

31. Appointment of Staff

The staff of the Financial Intelligence Unit shall be appointed by the Governor. And such staff shall be competent and capable persons.

32. Conflict of Interest

(a) Neither the head of the Financial Intelligence Unit nor any employee shall hold any position in a reporting entity as defined in this law.

(b) If a position held, a work performed, or an activity conducted would hinder the independent performance of the duties of the Financial Intelligence Unit, neither the head of the Financial Intelligence Unit nor any employee shall participate in such a position, work, or activity.

33. Reports Submitted to the Financial Intelligence Unit

(a) Reports required to be prepared by reporting entities under this law shall be prepared in writing. Those reports shall be sent to the Financial Intelligence Unit through a fast and secure means of communication as determined by the Financial Intelligence Unit.

(b) Reports submitted to the Financial Intelligence Unit under this law and the regulations made under this law shall contain at least the following information.

(1) The complete information of the reporting institution, the name of the reporting officer, and the contact information of that person;

(2) The complete information of the customer, and in cases where the information of the beneficiary of the transaction is required, the complete information of that person;

(3) The type of the transaction, the amount of money involved in the transaction, the type of currency, the date of the transaction, and the account numbers of the parties involved in the transaction; and

(4) A statement containing the reasons for considering the transaction to be a suspicious transaction.

(c) The Financial Intelligence Unit shall determine and inform reporting entities of the manner in which reports are to be submitted to the Financial Intelligence Unit and the format in which reports are to be prepared under this law.

34. Database of the Financial Intelligence Unit

(a) The Financial Intelligence Unit shall establish and maintain a database in accordance with the laws and regulations on confidentiality, protection of privacy, and computerized databases.

(b) The database established under subsection (a) of this Article shall include reports of suspicious transactions and other information in a manner that does not contravene the laws specified in that subsection and is in accordance with this law. In addition, if a suspicious transaction was conducted directly or through an intermediary, information about that transaction and the person who conducted the transaction shall be included in that database.

35. Annual Report

The Financial Intelligence Unit shall prepare an annual report on its work in the past year and send it to supervisory bodies, law enforcement bodies, investigative bodies, and other relevant bodies. And that report shall be published publicly. The annual report shall include a professional analysis of the reports received by the unit and related information. And it shall also include an analysis of the changes in money laundering activities and terrorism financing activities and that information.

36. Operating Budget

Each year, the Financial Intelligence Unit shall prepare a proposed budget for the coming year in accordance with the standards set by the Governor and submit it to the Maldives Monetary Authority.

37. Confidentiality

The heads and employees of the Financial Intelligence Unit, and experts, consultants, and any other person authorized to use the information of the unit who are involved in the work of the unit, shall maintain the confidentiality of the information obtained in the performance of their duties. And they shall maintain the confidentiality of such information even after the completion of their duties. And they shall use such information received by them only in the manner specified in this law.

38. Maintaining Relations with Foreign Agencies

(a) The Financial Intelligence Unit may exchange information with a foreign agency that carries out similar work to the work of the Financial Intelligence Unit and is obliged to maintain confidentiality in the manner specified in Article 37 of this law, at the request of that agency or on the initiative of the Financial Intelligence Unit, on the basis of an agreement between the two parties. It is not necessary for such an agency to be an agency working in a specific field.

(b) If the Financial Intelligence Unit exchanges information with a foreign agency under subsection (a) of this Article, it shall be done under an agreement or other arrangement between the two parties.

(c) Any information shared or exchanged under subsection (a) of this Article shall be used only for the purpose of preventing money laundering activities, predicate offenses to money laundering, or terrorism financing activities. And such information shall be used with the permission of the agency that provided the information.

Chapter Eight
Reporting of Suspicious Transactions

39. Responsibility to Report Suspicious Transactions

(a) If a reporting entity suspects or has reasonable grounds to suspect that certain money or property is the proceeds of crime, or is related to a money laundering activity or a terrorism financing activity, it shall report the matter to the Financial Intelligence Unit as soon as possible after the suspicion arises or such grounds are identified, and no later than 3 (three) working days.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, notaries, legal practitioners, and other professional persons in the legal field, and accountants, auditors, and tax advisors are not required to report information received in connection with a court case involving a client or information received in representing such a person in a court case. Such information includes information received in providing legal advice in connection with filing a case in court. And it is not required to report such information whether it was received before, during, or after the court case.

(c) If dealers in precious goods such as jewelry and metals conduct a transaction in cash in an amount equal to or exceeding the amount specified by the Maldives Monetary Authority, or its equivalent in foreign currency, that transaction shall be considered a suspicious transaction and shall be reported to the Financial Intelligence Unit.

(d) Real estate dealers shall consider real estate transactions conducted with their clients as suspicious transactions and shall report them to the Financial Intelligence Unit.

(e) The Financial Intelligence Unit shall prepare and publish a regulation stating the manner in which reports are to be submitted to the Financial Intelligence Unit under this Article and the format in which the reports should be.

40. Reporting of Monetary Transactions

(a) Reporting entities shall report to the Financial Intelligence Unit any transaction in an amount of money equal to or exceeding the amount specified by the Maldives Monetary Authority in regulations made under this law, or its equivalent in foreign currency, or if the total amount of transactions that are considered to be linked is equal to or exceeds the amount specified by the Maldives Monetary Authority in regulations made under this law, or its equivalent in foreign currency, whether such transaction is conducted in cash or other funds in the Maldives or abroad.

(b) The Financial Intelligence Unit shall prepare and publish a regulation stating the manner in which reports are to be submitted to the Financial Intelligence Unit under subsection (a) of this Article and the format in which the reports should be.

41. Reporting of Cross-Border Monetary Transfers

(a) Reporting entities shall report to the Financial Intelligence Unit every cross-border monetary transfer made as a single transaction or as linked transactions.

(b) The Financial Intelligence Unit shall prepare and publish a regulation stating the manner in which reports are to be submitted to the Financial Intelligence Unit under this Article and the format in which the reports should be.

42. Postponement of Transactions

(a) Reporting entities shall conduct any transaction suspected of being related to a money laundering activity, a terrorism financing activity, or proceeds of crime only after providing information about the transaction to the Financial Intelligence Unit and after the unit has given a specific instruction on conducting the transaction under subsection (b) of this Article.

(b) If the Financial Intelligence Unit finds that a transaction submitted to it under subsection (a) of this Article involves a serious matter or a matter requiring immediate action, the Financial Intelligence Unit has the discretion to order the suspension of the transaction for a period not exceeding 72 (seventy-two) hours.

(c) If it is not possible to stop a transaction specified in subsection (a) of this Article, or if stopping such a transaction would hinder the efforts to identify the beneficiary of the transaction, the reporting entity shall immediately inform the Financial Intelligence Unit after conducting the transaction.

43. Non-Disclosure of Information Submitted to the Financial Intelligence Unit about a Specific Person

A reporting entity, or its director, officer, or employee shall not, under any circumstances, disclose to the customer or a third party that information about the customer is being submitted or has been submitted to the Financial Intelligence Unit, or that a report on money laundering or financing of terrorism is being submitted or has been submitted to the unit, or that an investigation into money laundering or financing of terrorism is being conducted or is about to be conducted.

Chapter Nine
Circumstances of Non-Liability

44. Immunity for Those Who Report Suspicious Transactions in Good Faith

If a reporting entity reports in good faith in accordance with this law, no criminal or civil proceedings shall be brought against it or its director, officer, or employee for breach of banking secrecy, professional secrecy, or contract. And no administrative or corrective action shall be taken against such a person.

45. Immunity for Those Who Conduct Suspicious Transactions

(a) No charge of money laundering or financing of terrorism shall be brought against a reporting entity or its director, officer, or employee for conducting a transaction that has been reported in good faith in accordance with Articles 39, 40, 41, and 42 of this law.

(b) Any person who conducts a transaction at the request of a law enforcement agency as specified in Article 27(d)(1) and Article 44 of this law shall be granted immunity under this Article.

Chapter Ten
Responsibilities of Supervisory Bodies

46. General Provisions on Supervisory Bodies of Reporting Entities

(a) The relevant bodies responsible for supervising and regulating reporting entities shall ensure that reporting entities comply with the matters specified in Part Two of this law.

(b) The bodies that supervise or regulate reporting entities or other relevant bodies shall do the following in accordance with this law.

(1) Take appropriate legal and administrative measures to prevent persons who control reporting entities, or who, directly or indirectly, participate in the management of reporting entities, or who are members of the board of directors, or who are in management, from being unfit persons. In this regard, in testing for fitness, the person's integrity, professional experience, education and skills, mental state, compliance with standards applicable in his or her field of work and licensing standards, and criminal record shall be considered.

(2) Supervise and monitor reporting entities and ensure that they maintain documents and report in accordance with this law;

(3) Regularly check whether reporting entities have established the internal programs specified in Article 21 of this law and whether they are acting in accordance with those programs;

(4) Provide guidance and establish relevant policies and procedures to assist in identifying suspicious conduct of customers;

(5) Share information on money laundering and terrorism financing activities with foreign authorities or relevant authorities in the Maldives, and provide assistance in the investigation of such cases and in the trial stage of such cases;

(6) Instruct reporting entities to comply with this law to the extent permitted by the laws and regulations of the countries where their branches and subsidiaries operate. And if such branches or subsidiaries are unable to comply with this law, instruct them to report the matter to the supervisory or regulatory body or other relevant bodies;

(7) Upon receipt of any information indicating a money laundering or terrorism financing activity or proceeds of crime or a transaction suspected of being related to such a thing or activity, report it to the Financial Intelligence Unit as soon as possible and no later than 3 (three) working days;

(8) Cooperate with agencies in foreign countries that carry out similar work in connection with investigations or court cases related to money laundering and terrorism financing activities or violations of the laws and regulations that reporting entities must comply with; and

(9) Maintain statistics on the various measures being taken to implement the articles of this chapter.

47. Role of Supervisory Bodies

(a) If a supervisory or regulatory body or any other relevant body finds that a reporting entity supervised or regulated by it has violated an article specified in Part Two and Part Three of this law, one or more of the following measures may be taken against that reporting entity.

(1) Giving a written warning;

(2) Ordering a specific matter or matters to be done in a specific manner;

(3) Ordering reporting entities to submit regular reports on the measures they are taking to fulfill their responsibilities;

(4) Fining the entity an amount between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand);

(5) Prohibiting the person from working in that field;

(6) Changing the managers or members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders of the reporting entity or reducing their powers; this includes appointing an administrator to do a specific task.

(7) Suspending or revoking the license issued to the reporting entity.

(b) If a supervisory or regulatory body or any other relevant body takes any action under this Article, it shall inform the Financial Intelligence Unit and publicly announce the action taken.

(c) If information received by a supervisory or regulatory body or any other relevant body indicates that a money laundering or terrorism financing activity is being conducted, that body shall inform the Financial Intelligence Unit.

Chapter Eleven
Exemption from the Obligation of Non-Disclosure of Information under Banking Secrecy or Other Professional Privilege

48. Exemption from the Obligation of Non-Disclosure of Information under Banking Secrecy or Other Professional Privilege

When a supervisory body, a law enforcement body, an investigative body, a court of law, or the Financial Intelligence Unit orders the provision of specific information or the submission of a specific document in accordance with this law, the obligation of non-disclosure of information under banking secrecy or other professional privilege shall not be used as a reason for not fulfilling the responsibilities under this law.

Part Four
Investigation

Chapter Twelve
Investigation

49. Investigative Techniques

(a) For the purpose of obtaining evidence related to an offense of money laundering or financing of terrorism or for the purpose of locating proceeds of crime, a court order may be issued for a specific period to be determined by the court with jurisdiction, to do the following.

(1) To monitor bank accounts or other such accounts;

(2) To inspect computer systems, networks, and servers;

(3) To surveil or tap telephone lines, fax lines, electronic transmissions, or devices used for communication;

(4) To make audio or video recordings of conversations or exchanges and actions; and

(5) To intercept or seize letters and other transactions.

(b) The techniques specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be used in accordance with the relevant laws. And any of those techniques shall be used only if it is known or believed that an account, telephone line, computer system, network, or document is being used or may be used by a person suspected of being involved in a money laundering activity or a terrorism financing activity.

50. Undercover Operations and Controlled Delivery

(a) An official involved in the investigation of money laundering and terrorism financing offenses who, for the purpose of obtaining evidence related to money laundering and terrorism financing activities or for the purpose of locating proceeds of crime, commits an act considered to be a money laundering or terrorism financing activity in an undercover operation or a controlled delivery, shall not be punished.

(b) Officials involved in the investigation of money laundering and terrorism financing offenses shall not induce a suspect to commit any offense.

(c) The permission of the Commissioner of Police shall be obtained before conducting any operation specified in subsection (a) of this Article.

Part Five
Penalties and Provisional Measures

Chapter Thirteen
Provisional Measures, Freezing, and Seizure of Money or Property

51. Provisional Measures

(a) Law enforcement bodies have the power to take provisional measures against money or property that may be confiscated by the state under Article 62 of this law.

(b) The provisional measures referred to in subsection (a) of this Article include the seizure of the money or property for a specific period under a court order and the freezing of transactions with that money or property.

(c) A provisional measure taken under subsection (a) of this Article to seize money or property or to freeze transactions with it shall be taken in a manner that does not prejudice the rights of third parties acting in good faith.

(d) Money or property frozen under this Article shall be managed by the financial institution where the money or property is located, or by the person designated to manage the property or money at the time the transaction was frozen.

(e) Money or property seized under this Article shall be managed under the supervision of the relevant authority specified in the court order.

(f) The person who requested the court order for a provisional measure under subsection (a) of this Article may, if he or she so wishes, terminate the provisional measure even before the expiry of the court order.

(g) The suspect or a person who has an interest in the money or property against which a provisional measure has been taken under subsection (a) of this Article may apply to the court to terminate the provisional measure.

(h) The person who obtained the court order for the provisional measure is responsible for the safekeeping of the money or property seized under subsection (a) of this Article or the property used to commit the crime until it is confiscated by the state or until the provisional measure taken under this Article is terminated.

52. How to Deal with Money Related to a Terrorism Financing Activity

(a) The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall send to the Financial Intelligence Unit the list of persons designated by the United Nations Security Council under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.

(b) When another country designates a person as a terrorist or an organization as a terrorist organization under United Nations Security Council Resolution 1373, or designates a person as assisting, directly or indirectly, any such person, and that country sends the information of such persons to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall promptly send a list containing that information to the Financial Intelligence Unit.

(c) The Financial Intelligence Unit shall instruct reporting entities to freeze transactions with the property or money of the persons included in the list sent by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Financial Intelligence Unit under subsection (a) of this Article. And in accordance with the instruction of the Financial Intelligence Unit, reporting entities shall freeze transactions with the property or money of such persons that they maintain.

(d) The Financial Intelligence Unit has the discretion to instruct reporting entities to freeze transactions with the property or money of the persons included in the list sent by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Financial Intelligence Unit under subsection (b) of this Article. And if the Financial Intelligence Unit gives such an instruction, reporting entities shall freeze transactions with the property or money of such persons that they maintain, in accordance with that instruction.

(e) If any reporting entity maintains any property or money related to a terrorist or a terrorist organization, or any property or money connected to any person included in the list submitted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Financial Intelligence Unit under subsection (a) or (b) of this Article, it shall promptly inform the Financial Intelligence Unit.

(f) If a reporting entity violates subsections (d) and (e) of this Article, it shall be fined an amount between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 150,000 (one hundred and fifty thousand).

(g) If the owner of property or money frozen under subsection (d) of this Article believes that his or her name has been included in the list designated by the United Nations Security Council by mistake, he or she may, within 29 (twenty-nine) days from the date on which the transaction with his or her property or money was frozen, apply to the Financial Intelligence Unit to have his or her name removed from the list and for the release of the frozen property or money.

Chapter Fourteen
Offenses and Penalties

53. The Offense of Money Laundering

(a) It is an offense to commit any act or conduct defined as money laundering in Article 5 of this law.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits the offense specified in subsection (a) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand) and MVR 1,000,000 (one million) and imprisonment for a term of between 5 (five) and 15 (fifteen) years, or a fine of not more than 5 (five) times the amount of money used in the commission of the offense (the amount of money laundered) and imprisonment for a term of between 5 (five) and 15 (fifteen) years.

(c) It is an offense to attempt to commit the offense specified in subsection (a) of this Article, or to aid and abet the commission of that offense, or to facilitate the commission of that offense, or to encourage the commission of that offense.

(d) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in subsection (c) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand) and imprisonment for a term of between 2 (two) and 10 (ten) years, or a fine of not more than 5 (five) times the amount of money used in the commission of the offense (the amount of money laundered) and imprisonment for a term of between 2 (two) and 10 (ten) years.

54. The Offense of Financing of Terrorism

(a) It is an offense to finance terrorism as stated in Article 6 of this law.

(b) It is an offense to commit any of the following acts.

(1) Participating in the financing of terrorism;

(2) Planning to commit the offense of financing of terrorism through another person or instructing another person to commit the offense of financing of terrorism;

(3) Providing financial assistance to any person acting for the purpose of financing of terrorism; providing financial assistance shall be deemed to have been done if any of the following acts is committed.

(i) Willfully providing assistance to facilitate the financing of terrorism; or

(ii) Willfully providing assistance to a person knowing that the purpose of that person is to finance terrorism.

(c) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in subsection (a) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand) and MVR 1,000,000 (one million) or imprisonment for a term of between 5 (five) and 15 (fifteen) years, or both a fine and imprisonment.

(d) It is an offense to attempt to commit the offense of financing of terrorism, or to aid and abet the commission of that offense, or to facilitate the commission of that offense, or to instruct the commission of that offense. Such offenses shall be punished as if they were completed offenses.

(e) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in subsections (b) and (d) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand) or imprisonment for a term of between 2 (two) and 10 (ten) years.

55. Participation in, or Planning to Commit, an Offense of Money Laundering or Financing of Terrorism

It is an offense to participate in, or plan to commit, an offense specified in Article 53 and Article 54 of this law. The penalty for such an offense is a fine of between MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand) or imprisonment for a term of between 2 (two) and 10 (ten) years, or both a fine and imprisonment.

56. Committing Offenses Outside the Maldives

(a) If a Maldivian citizen commits any offense designated as an offense in this law outside the Maldives, he or she has committed an offense. And the penalty for any such offense is the penalty specified for that offense in this law.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, a Maldivian citizen shall be prosecuted in the Maldives under subsection (a) of this Article only if he or she has not been prosecuted and convicted in the country where he or she committed the offense.

57. General Offenses

(a) Unless otherwise expressly provided in this law, the penalty for a person who violates this law is a fine of between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand) or imprisonment for a term of between 1 (one) and 10 (ten) years, or both a fine and imprisonment.

(b) It is an offense to willfully or knowingly repeatedly conduct a transaction or transfer in an amount less than the amount specified as the reporting threshold under this law in order to willfully avoid inclusion in a report required under this law.

(c) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in subsection (b) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 1,000,000 (one million).

58. Offenses Committed by Legal Persons

(a) If a legal person commits an offense specified in this law, the penalty for that legal person is a fine of twice the amount of the fine specified for that offense in this law.

(b) If a person authorized to represent a legal person or a person in a senior position in a legal person commits an offense of money laundering or financing of terrorism for the benefit of that legal person due to the negligence of the legal person in supervising that person, the legal person shall be guilty. And the penalty for that legal person is a fine of twice the amount of the fine specified for that offense in this law.

(c) In addition to the penalties specified in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article, the following penalties may also be imposed on such legal persons.

(1) Prohibiting the conduct of certain types of business activities, directly or indirectly, permanently or for a specific period;

(2) Placing under court monitoring;

(3) Issuing an order to prohibit the use of a place used to commit the offense, permanently or for a specific period;

(4) Dissolving the legal person if it is a business established for the purpose of committing that offense;

(5) Publicly announcing the judgment of the court against such a person.

(d) For the purpose of subparagraph (3) of subsection (c) of this Article, "place" includes buildings, land, and other places, and land transport vehicles, sea transport vessels, and air transport aircraft.

59. Discretion to Increase the Penalty for Money Laundering Offenses

In determining the penalty for the offenses specified in Articles 53 and 55 of this law, the court has the discretion to add an additional 2 (two) years to the term of imprisonment within the range of penalties specified in that article in the following circumstances. And the court has the discretion to add to the fine an amount not exceeding 2 (two) times the amount of money used in the commission of the offense (the amount of money laundered). And in the following circumstances, the court has the discretion to add to the amount of the fine specified in Article 58 of this law an amount not exceeding 2 (two) times the amount of money used in the commission of the offense (the amount of money laundered).

(a) If the penalty specified for a predicate offense to money laundering includes imprisonment and the term of imprisonment is greater than the penalty specified for the offense of money laundering in this law;

(b) If the offense was committed in the course of conducting a business or other gainful activity;

(c) If the offense was committed as part of the activities of an organized criminal group;

(d) If the value of the laundered property exceeds MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand);

(e) If the purpose of the offense was to obtain a benefit;

(f) If the purpose of the offense was to encourage the commission of further offenses.

60. Circumstances in which the Penalty for Terrorism Financing Offenses may be Increased

If any of the following circumstances exists, the court has the discretion to add an additional 2 (two) years to the penalties specified in Articles 54 and 55 of this law, or to impose an additional fine of MVR 150,000 (one hundred and fifty thousand), or to impose both such fine and imprisonment. And the court has the discretion to add MVR 150,000 (one hundred and fifty thousand) to the amount of the fine specified in Article 58 of this law.

(a) If the offense was committed in the course of conducting a business or other gainful activity;

(b) If the offense was committed as part of the activities of an organized criminal group.

61. Circumstances in which the Penalty may be Reduced

(a) In determining the penalty for the offenses specified in this law, the general circumstances considered in the laws of the Maldives on the reduction of penalties shall be taken into account.

(b) If a convict provides information to a relevant law enforcement agency, and that information would not have been available to that agency otherwise, and that information assists in the following matters, the courts have the discretion to reduce the penalty imposed on that convict under Articles 54 and 55 of this law.

(1) To stop or reduce the effect of the offense;

(2) To find other persons who participated in the commission of the offense;

(3) To obtain evidence;

(4) To provide information necessary to prevent the commission of other offenses related to money laundering or financing of terrorism;

(5) To prevent organized criminal groups from obtaining resources or proceeds of crime.

Chapter Fifteen
Confiscation of Property by the State

62. Confiscation of Property by the State

(a) A court order shall be issued for the confiscation by the state of the following money or property in connection with an offense of money laundering, a predicate offense to money laundering, or an offense of financing of terrorism, or an attempt to commit any of those offenses.

(1) The money or property used in the commission of the act of money laundering (the laundered money or property);

(2) The money or property used to commit a predicate offense to money laundering;

(3) The proceeds of crime or the money and property obtained from the proceeds of crime;

(4) The money or property that was intended to be obtained or was obtained by committing a crime;

(5) A property used to commit a crime;

(6) Money or property commingled with the proceeds of a crime;

(7) Property derived, directly or indirectly, from the proceeds of a crime. This includes income, profits, and other benefits derived from that thing.

(b) A court order under subsection (a) of this Article shall be issued against the owner of the property or money specified above. However, if the owner proves that he or she obtained the property or money after paying a reasonable price for it in money or after providing a service of that value, or in any other legally permissible manner, and did not know that the property or fund was illicit property or a fund, such a court order shall not be issued against the owner of the property or money.

(c) A court order issued under this Article shall contain the complete information of the property or money to be confiscated by the state. That information shall include the complete details of such money or property and a proper description of its location.

63. Invalidation of Certain Legal Documents

(a) If any legal instrument is an instrument made to obstruct the confiscation of property by the state under Article 62 of this law, that instrument may be invalidated by the court.

(b) If an instrument invalidated under subsection (a) of this Article was made to obtain a certain value, the person who participated in that instrument in good faith shall be given the money he or she paid.

64. How to Deal with Things Confiscated by the State

(a) Unless otherwise provided in this law, money or property confiscated by the state shall be kept under the custody of the person who requested the court order for the confiscation of that property.

(b) The money or property specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be maintained at its full value in a manner that allows third parties who claim a right in good faith in accordance with the law to receive their rights.

(c) The manner of dealing with money or property confiscated by the state under this law shall be specified in the regulations made under this law.

Part Six
Establishment and Maintenance of International Relations

Chapter Sixteen
General Provisions

65. General Provisions

(a) In the investigation of money laundering and terrorism financing offenses and in conducting trials in relation to those offenses, and in providing extradition and legal assistance, the relevant authorities of the Maldives shall provide the widest possible cooperation to the relevant authorities of other countries.

(b) The provisions of this part of this law shall not affect the actions to be taken in relation to extradition and the provision of legal assistance between foreign countries and the Maldives under the laws of the Maldives or under a multilateral or bilateral treaty.

Chapter Seventeen
Security Measures to be Taken to Prevent the Financing of Terrorism

66. Investigation of Received Information

When information that a person involved or suspected of being involved in financing of terrorism is in the territory of the Maldives is sent to the relevant authorities, those authorities shall take the necessary steps to investigate the matter and conduct an investigation.

67. Security Measures

If it becomes necessary to extradite a person specified in Article 66 of this law or to try him or her, the relevant authorities shall take appropriate measures to produce him or her.

68. Rights of a Person Subject to Security Measures

A person subject to a security measure under Article 67 of this law has the following rights.

(a) To be given the opportunity to communicate as soon as possible with a person appointed to represent a country of which he or she is a national or a country that is obliged to protect his or her rights, or if he or she is stateless, the country where he or she resides;

(b) To be given the opportunity for the person appointed to represent the country specified in subsection (a) of this Article to be present and to meet him or her;

(c) To be informed of the rights specified in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article;

(d) To be treated in a fair manner in accordance with the laws and regulations in force in the Maldives and with international treaties.

69. Informing the Country with an Interest

If a person has been arrested for investigation under this law, the relevant authorities shall inform the countries that claim jurisdiction over the offense of the fact of his or her arrest and the reason for the arrest as soon as possible. And if those authorities deem it important to inform other countries, they may do so directly or through the Secretary-General of the United Nations.

Chapter Eighteen
Extradition and Mutual Legal Assistance

70. Request for Extradition

(a) Money laundering and terrorism financing offenses are extraditable offenses.

(b) A request for extradition in connection with an offense of money laundering or financing of terrorism shall be dealt with in accordance with the relevant law on extradition and in accordance with the principles contained in international treaties on extradition to which the Maldives is a party.

71. Dual Criminality

A person may be extradited in connection with an offense of money laundering or financing of terrorism only if the offense is an offense under the law of the Maldives and under the law of the country requesting extradition.

72. Offense not to be a Political Offense

For the purposes of this law, money laundering and financing of terrorism shall not be considered a political offense or an offense connected with a political offense, or an offense committed for a political purpose.

73. Manner in which Countries should Request Matters and the Procedures for Doing Them

(a) Requests for legal assistance by the relevant authorities of foreign countries in connection with an offense of money laundering or financing of terrorism, and the provision of such assistance, shall be done in accordance with the relevant law on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, unless otherwise provided in the laws specified in subsection (a) of this Article or in any other law, this Article does not prevent the relevant authorities of the Maldives from exchanging legal assistance in connection with an offense of money laundering or financing of terrorism under an agreement or treaty with a foreign country or a foreign organization.

Part Seven
Miscellaneous

Chapter Nineteen
Miscellaneous

74. Administrative Action for Violation of the Law

If any person violates this law or a regulation made under this law, the Financial Intelligence Unit may take one of the following administrative actions against that person.

(a) To order in writing to correct the violation within a specific period;

(b) To impose a fine of between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand);

(c) If the violation is not corrected within the period given to correct it, to impose a fine of between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand) for each day that the matter is not corrected.

75. Making of Regulations

(a) The regulations necessary for the implementation of this law shall be made and implemented by the following bodies in relation to the following matters.

(1) The regulations stated to be made by the Ministry of Home Affairs shall be made by that ministry.

(2) The regulations stated to be made by the Maldives Customs Service shall be made by that service.

(3) Except for matters related to the bodies specified in subparagraphs (1) and (2) of this paragraph, regulations in other matters shall be made and implemented by the Maldives Monetary Authority.

(b) The regulations required to be made under this law shall be made and published publicly by the relevant authorities within a maximum period of 3 (three) months from the date of commencement of this law.

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (b) of this Article, the Maldives Monetary Authority has the discretion to make and implement other regulations necessary for the implementation of this law, in addition to the regulations stated to be made under this law at the time of commencement of this law, within the scope of this law. And, in relation to specific circumstances, the Maldives Monetary Authority has the discretion to give guidance to specific persons or to order them to do a specific thing.

76. Commencement of the Law

This law shall commence on the date on which 6 (six) months have passed from the date on which this law is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

77. Definitions

Unless the context otherwise requires, the following expressions and words shall have the meanings given below.

(a) "Beneficial owner" means an individual who controls a customer, or a person who conducts a transaction in the name of any person, or a person who can exercise control over a legal person or an established arrangement.

(b) "Confiscation of property by the state" means the permanent seizure of any property under a court order.

(c) "Designated non-financial business or profession" means:

(1) Real estate dealers;

(2) Dealers in precious goods such as jewelry and metals;

(3) Legal practitioners, notaries, and other independent professional persons in the legal field who conduct transactions for any person in connection with the following matters or assist in the preparation for such transactions:

(i) Real estate business;

(ii) Managing money, financial securities, or other assets;

(iii) Maintaining a bank account, savings account, or financial securities account;

(iv) Arranging matters related to funds and other things received for the establishment, operation, or maintenance of a company; or

(v) Establishing, operating, or maintaining a legal person or other legal arrangement, and buying and selling business entities.

(4) Independent accountants, auditors, and tax advisors;

(5) Trust and company service providers, other than financial institutions, who provide the following services to a third party on a commercial basis:

(i) Acting as an agent for the formation, registration, or operation of legal persons; or acting as a director or secretary of a company, or a partner of a partnership, or acting in such a capacity in any other legal person, or arranging for another person to act in such a capacity;

(ii) Providing a registered office, business address, office space, or an address for receiving correspondence or an administrative address for a company, partnership, or any other legal person or legal arrangement;

(iii) Acting as a trustee of an express trust or arranging for another person to act as such a trustee;

(iv) Acting as a nominee shareholder of a company or arranging for another person to act as such a nominee shareholder.

(6) Other businesses and professions as determined by the Governor.

(d) "Financial institution" has the meaning given in the Maldives Monetary Authority Law 1981.

(e) "Reporting entities" means:

(1) Financial institutions;

(2) A designated non-financial business or profession;

(3) A person or entity who, on a commercial basis, conducts one or more of the following activities or transactions for or on behalf of a customer:

(i) Accepting deposits and other repayable funds from the public, including private banking;

(ii) Lending; this includes secured credit, unsecured credit, factoring with or without recourse, and lending for business transactions;

(iii) Financial leasing;

(iv) Money or value transfer;

(v) Providing and managing means of payment;

(vi) Financial guarantees and commitments;

(vii) Trading in the following:

i. Money market instruments, including checks, bills, certificates of deposit, and derivative products;

ii. Foreign exchange;

iii. Exchange, interest rate, and index instruments;

iv. Transferable financial securities;

v. Commodity futures trading.

(viii) Participating in the issuance of financial securities and providing related financial services;

(ix) Managing a single portfolio or more than one portfolio collectively;

(x) Safekeeping and administration of cash or liquid securities on behalf of other persons;

(xi) Investing or managing money or funds on behalf of other persons;

(xii) Underwriting and selling life insurance and other investment-related insurance by insurance companies or brokers; and

(xiii) Money changing.

(f) "Freezing" means prohibiting the transfer, conversion, disposition, or movement of money or property for the period specified in an order or instruction issued by a court of law or other competent authority.

(g) "Governor" means the Governor of the Maldives Monetary Authority.

(h) "Bearer negotiable instrument" means bank checks, traveler's checks, promissory notes, and money orders that are convertible to money in the following circumstances.

(1) A document that is convertible to money, is easily endorsable by the person carrying it, or is issued to a fictitious person in such a way that the identity cannot be ascertained, or a document issued in such a way that the person to whom it is delivered at the time of delivery becomes the owner of the document;

(2) A signed document convertible to money that does not contain information that is mandatory in such a document; or

(3) A document that is endorsable by the person carrying it without the name of the person to whom the document convertible to money is issued.

(i) "Negotiable instruments" means a document that can be bought and sold, and the rights in the document can be easily transferred from one person to another, and the document is used as money. For the purposes of this law, such a document means checks, promissory notes, money orders, traveler's checks, and other such documents.

(j) "Endorsement" has the meaning given in Law No. 16/95 (Law on Negotiable Instruments).

(k) "Batch transfer" means a transfer in which more than one transfer is combined and sent to a single financial institution. This can be a transfer made to a single individual or to more than one person.

(l) "Information" includes all types of data or documents.

(m) "Payable-through account" means the conducting of financial transactions by a third party in its own name through a correspondent account.

(n) "Politically exposed person" means any person entrusted with a prominent public function in the Maldives or a foreign country. It also includes family members of such a person or persons with a close relationship to such a person.

(o) "Money or value transfer service" means accepting cash, checks, or other negotiable instruments, and transmitting the value to a beneficiary in cash or in any other form through communication, messaging, transfer, or through the clearing system of the value transfer provider.

(p) "Seizure of property or money" means prohibiting the transfer, conversion, disposition, or movement of money or property in accordance with an order or instruction issued by a court of law or other competent authority.

(q) "Undercover operations" means secret activities conducted by an officer of a law enforcement agency, in conjunction with such persons in a manner that conceals his or her identity, upon receiving information that a person or persons are committing a crime or are likely to commit a crime.

(r) "Extradition" has the meaning given to that term in the relevant law on extradition.

(s) "Notary" means a person authorized by law to witness and sign a document, agreement, form, or declaration to certify its authenticity or truthfulness.

(t) "The offense of insider trading" includes the offense specified in Article 54 of Law No. 2/2006 (Maldives Financial Securities Act) and offenses designated as insider trading offenses under any other law.
