Law on Prohibiting Intimidation, Dangerous Weapons, and Sharp Objects

1. Introduction and Name

(a) This is the law to prohibit the carrying of sharp objects, weapons, and similar items in a manner that causes or is likely to cause harm to persons, bodies, or property, and to prohibit intimidating and threatening people.

(b) This law shall be cited as the "Law on Prohibiting Intimidation, Dangerous Weapons, and Sharp Objects."

2. Intimidation

(a) It is an offense to intimidate or threaten to cause harm to a person's life, body, a family member, or a person under one's guardianship.

(b) It is an offense to intimidate or threaten to cause damage to a person's home or property, or a place or object under their care, or a sea or land vehicle.

(c) It is an offense to actually commit or attempt to commit an act as described in subsections (a) and (b) of this section, with or without a prior threat.

(d) The penalty for the offense described in subsections (a) and (b) of this section is imprisonment for a period of between 6 (six) months and 18 (eighteen) months.

(e) The penalty for the offense described in subsection (c) of this section is imprisonment for a period of between 3 (three) years and 7 (seven) years.

(f) If a sharp object or a dangerous weapon is used in the commission of an offense described in subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this section, a term of imprisonment between 1 (one) year and 3 (three) years shall be added to the penalty prescribed in subsections (d) and (e) of this section.

3. Carrying and Keeping Sharp Objects

(a) It is an offense to carry any type of dangerous weapon or sharp object in a public place without a reasonable cause.

(b) It is an offense to keep a dangerous weapon or sharp object in a place other than a public place without a reasonable cause.

(c) The penalty for the offense described in subsections (a) and (b) of this section is imprisonment for a period of between 6 (six) months and 12 (twelve) months.

(d) If an object mentioned in subsection (a) is carried in public places such as schools, healthcare facilities, mosques, government buildings, places where people gather for various ceremonies and events, and in public transport like buses and ferries where many people travel, a penalty of 1 (one) year to 3 (three) years shall be added to the punishment stated in subsection (c) of this section.

(e) For the purpose of subsections (a) and (b) of this section, "reasonable cause" shall be considered when the object is carried for one of the following purposes:
(1) For work purposes; or
(2) For general domestic purposes.

(f) In an investigation initiated upon finding a dangerous weapon or sharp object in any place, the owner of such a place or the person or persons in charge of that place at that time shall be held responsible only if they knowingly commit one of the following acts:
(1) The object was acquired or accepted by the owner of the place where it was found or the person or persons in charge of that place at that time;
(2) The owner of the place where the object was found or the person or persons in charge of that place at that time had the discretion to dispose of the object but kept it in their possession for a reasonable period.

4. Importing Sharp Objects into the Maldives

(a) It is an offense to import or manufacture flick knives, butterfly knives, and items specified in subsections (c) and (d) of Section 10 of this law—except for items used for general domestic and work purposes—and items internationally recognized or regarded as weapons in most countries, without a written permit from the Ministry of Home Affairs.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an offense described in subsection (a) of this section is imprisonment for a period of between 1 (one) year and 3 (three) years.

5. Intentional Homicide Using a Sharp Object or Weapon

(a) A person who unlawfully kills another person using a sharp object or a dangerous weapon shall be guilty of the offense of intentional homicide.

(b) If more than one person is practically involved in the unlawful killing of a person as per subsection (a) of this section, all of them shall be guilty of the offense of intentional homicide without right.

(c) The penalty for the offense specified in subsections (a) and (b) of this section is the death penalty.

(d) Notwithstanding subsection (c) of this section, if at any stage before the execution of the death penalty, the heirs of the deceased person receive blood money (diyah) from the convicted person or their 'asaba' (male relatives) and grant a pardon, or grant a pardon without receiving blood money, the person shall be sentenced to life imprisonment as a ta'zir (discretionary) punishment, without retribution in kind (qisas).

(e) It is an offense to attempt to commit the crime specified in subsections (a) and (b) of this section, or to aid in its commission, or to participate in it in any form.

(f) The penalty for the offense specified in subsection (e) of this section is imprisonment for a period of between 15 (fifteen) years and 25 (twenty-five) years.

6. Death Resulting from an Assault with a Sharp Object or Weapon

(a) If a person dies as a result of an assault committed with a sharp object or a dangerous weapon, the person who committed the assault is guilty of an offense.

(b) The penalty for the offense specified in subsection (a) of this section is life imprisonment.

(c) It is an offense to attempt to commit the crime specified in subsection (a) of this section, or to aid in its commission, or to participate in it in any form.

(d) The penalty for the offense specified in subsection (c) of this section is imprisonment for a period of between 15 (fifteen) years and 20 (twenty) years.

7. Assault with a Sharp Object or Weapon Causing the Loss of a Bodily Organ

(a) It is an offense to commit an assault with a sharp object or a dangerous weapon in a manner that causes the loss of a person's organ or part of an organ.

(b) The penalty for the offense specified in subsection (a) of this section is imprisonment for a period of between 15 (fifteen) years and 25 (twenty-five) years.

(c) It is an offense to attempt to commit the crime specified in subsection (a) of this section, or to aid in its commission, or to participate in it in any form.

(d) The penalty for the offense specified in subsection (c) of this section is imprisonment for a period of between 10 (ten) years and 20 (twenty) years.

8. Assault with a Sharp Object or Weapon Causing Serious Bodily Harm

(a) It is an offense to commit an assault with a sharp object or a dangerous weapon in a manner that causes serious bodily harm to a person.

(b) The penalty for the offense specified in subsection (a) of this section is imprisonment for a period of between 10 (ten) years and 15 (fifteen) years.

(c) It is an offense to attempt to commit the crime specified in subsection (a) of this section, or to aid in its commission, or to participate in it in any form.

(d) The penalty for the offense specified in subsection (c) of this section is imprisonment for a period of between 7 (seven) years and 10 (ten) years.

9. Assault with a Sharp Object or Weapon

(a) It is an offense to commit an assault using a sharp object or a dangerous weapon.

(b) The penalty for the offense specified in subsection (a) of this section is imprisonment for a period of between 7 (seven) years and 10 (ten) years.

(c) It is an offense to attempt to commit the crime specified in subsection (a) of this section, or to aid in its commission, or to participate in it in any form.

(d) The penalty for the offense specified in subsection (c) of this section is imprisonment for a period of between 3 (three) years and 5 (five) years.

10. Suspension of Certain Constitutional Rights

For a person detained or arrested under suspicion of an offense included in Sections 5 through 9 of this law, the rights granted by the Constitution, specifically those mentioned in Sections 11 through 14 of this law, are suspended to the extent specified in those sections.

11. Suspension of the Right to Remain Silent

Although every person is granted the right under Article 48(c) of the Constitution to remain silent and not provide any information other than identifying who they are when arrested or detained on suspicion of an offense, a person detained on suspicion of an offense included between Section 5 and Section 9 of this law does not have this right to any extent.

12. Suspension of the Right to be Released from Custody during the Investigation Stage

Although Article 49 of the Constitution states that no person shall be held in custody before a court judgment unless it is to prevent the concealment of evidence in the case they are suspected of, or to prevent influencing a witness, or because they may not appear in court, or may abscond, or if their release would pose a danger to the safety of the community, for the purpose of this law, the right is suspended to the extent that a judge is permitted to order the detention of a person suspected of an offense included in Sections 5 to 9 of this law until the end of the investigation and trial phases, based on the determination that their release could pose a danger to the safety of the community, and that they may attempt to conceal evidence or influence a witness.

13. Scope of Opportunity to Appoint a Legal Counsel

(a) If a person detained on suspicion of an offense specified in this law so wishes, they have the right to request the presence of their legal counsel during questioning. If they make such a request, it is mandatory for the police to provide that opportunity.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, if, during the opportunity given to arrange for a legal counsel under that subsection, the legal counsel fails to appear within 6 (six) hours without a reasonable cause as specified in the regulations made under this law, the police may proceed with questioning the person.

(c) If, during the opportunity given to the suspect to arrange for a legal counsel, their appointed counsel fails to appear, and the counsel's non-appearance was without notification to the suspect, the suspect shall be given an additional 6 (six) hours to appoint another legal counsel. And if, after the expiry of those 6 (six) hours, a legal counsel fails to appear without a reasonable cause as specified in the regulations made under this law, the police may proceed with questioning the person.

(d) The police may question a person who, after being given the legal warning by the police at the time of arrest and after ensuring they have understood the contents of that warning, waives the opportunity for legal counsel by stating that they do not require it.

14. Scope of Consultation with a Legal Counsel

In exercising the right to legal assistance provided under Article 53(a) of the Constitution, any communication between a person suspected of an offense included in Sections 5 to 9 of this law and their counsel, for the first 96 (ninety-six) hours from the moment of arrest, shall take place in the presence of a police officer. The person suspected of the crime and their counsel may meet and communicate in private only after the first 96 (ninety-six) hours mentioned in this section have passed.

15. Consideration of Article 16 of the Constitution in Suspending Rights

(a) The fundamental rights specified in Sections 11 through 14 of this law are suspended under Article 16(a) of the Constitution.

(b) When a court determines whether these rights are suspended to that extent under this law in accordance with Article 16(a) of the Constitution, the court shall consider that the People's Majlis has, in suspending those fundamental rights to that extent under this law, taken into account the 6 (six) points specified in Article 16(c) of the Constitution.

16. Detention

(a) If the police or the Prosecutor General requests a court to detain a person suspected of committing an offense included in Sections 5 to 9 of this law, the court shall order the person to be detained until the end of the investigation and trial phases if any of the circumstances specified in Article 49 of the Constitution for detaining a person before a court judgment exists.

(b) The standard used by the court under subsection (a) of this section to determine whether a circumstance specified in Article 49 of the Constitution exists is not the standard specified in Article 51(h) of the Constitution for proving a criminal offense, which is proof beyond a reasonable doubt. In that situation, the court shall consider whether it is more likely than not that such a circumstance exists, based on the following information presented by the police or the Prosecutor General:
(1) The record, if the person suspected of the crime has been previously arrested on suspicion of a criminal offense;
(2) The record, if the person suspected of the crime has been previously prosecuted on suspicion of a criminal offense;
(3) Information presented regarding the person in the police intelligence report;
(4) Other information presented by the police relating to one of the five circumstances specified in Article 49 of the Constitution.

17. Timeframe for Prosecution and Case Conclusion

(a) The Prosecutor General must submit charges to the court against a person arrested on suspicion of an offense included in Sections 5 to 9 of this law within a maximum of 15 (fifteen) days of their arrest. And the court must issue a judgment in the case within a maximum of 30 (thirty) days from the date the charge is submitted to the court.

(b) In cases like those mentioned in subsection (a) of this section, if sufficient evidence is available, it shall be mandatory for the Prosecutor General to submit the case for prosecution to the court within a maximum of 15 (fifteen) days of the person's arrest.

(c) Although the periods specified in this section are the periods to be applied under general principles, in a situation where it becomes necessary to extend these periods for the purpose of establishing justice and protecting public peace and order, it can be done for the shortest possible period suitable for that purpose.

18. Admissible Evidence

(a) The following types of evidence obtained during the investigation of an offense specified in Sections 5 to 9 of this law shall be considered admissible evidence in the prosecution of that offense:
(1) Anything that is considered as evidence in Islamic Shari'ah;
(2) A confession or admission made in a court hearing, where a person admits to committing a crime, whether orally, in writing, or in any other form;
(3) A statement made by a person on their deathbed that supports a relevant fact in the prosecution, upon their death;
(4) A statement given by the suspect of their own free will, without any coercion, in the presence of their legal counsel, which is audio and video recorded;
(5) Information of any act that indicates an intention to cause a specific event related to the criminal act or that the suspect prepared to cause such an event;
(6) Forensic evidence;
(7) Official documents.

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a)(6) of this section, "forensic evidence" includes the following:
(1) Information obtained through science and technology, including fingerprints, DNA information, photographs, internal body photos, body samples, and internal body samples;
(2) Information obtained from an autopsy performed on a deceased person's body;
(3) Information identified after analyzing any physical evidence found at the crime scene or any object used in the commission of the crime or that links the perpetrator and the victim to the crime.

(c) For the purpose of subsection (a)(7) of this section, "official document" refers to any item on which any type of information has been created, included, or registered by a party with the legal authority to enforce the powers of the Maldivian state, through any of the following means:
(1) An item in writing or print (whether a chart, plan, graph, or drawing);
(2) A computer file prepared to be accessible by electronic means;
(3) A photograph;
(4) A disk, tape, film, or roll on which sound or other such data is stored;
(5) A film, negative, or any other item on which a scene or other such data is stored.

19. Statements in a Court Hearing

The first court hearing where a person detained on suspicion of a crime is brought before a judge shall be considered a court session for the purpose of this law. And the statements and words he speaks in that session are things that can be used against him in a trial if a charge for that crime is later brought against him.

20. Offenses Requiring Payment of Diyah (Blood Money)

This law does not prevent the mandatory payment of diyah (blood money) as determined by the court, in addition to the penalties prescribed in this law, for offenses specified herein for which diyah is obligatory under Islamic Shari'ah.

21. Appeals

Notwithstanding any other law, the period for appealing a decision of a lower court in a case prosecuted under a section from Sections 5 to 9 of this law to the High Court of the Maldives, and the period for appealing a decision of the High Court in such cases to the Supreme Court of the Maldives, is 30 (thirty) days from the date of receiving the written judgment of the case. In calculating these 30 (thirty) days, official holidays shall not be included.

22. Searching Persons

If there is suspicion that sharp weapons are being carried in places such as schools, colleges, and institutions, the employees of those places and the police have the authority to search the suspected parties.

23. Precedence of this Law

If an offense, punishment, or matter explicitly stated in this law conflicts with an offense, punishment, or matter determined or established by another law, precedence shall be given to the offense, punishment, and matter explicitly stated in this law.

24. Sale of Knives and Similar Items

It is prohibited to sell items classified as sharp weapons, such as knives, to children under the age of 18.

25. Status of the Law

If an act specified as an offense in this law is also an offense under Law No. 9/2014 (Maldives Penal Code), but the elements of the offense in the Maldives Penal Code differ from the elements of the offense as defined in this law, the punishment shall be administered under this law if the elements of the offense are met according to this law. If the elements of the offense are only met for the offense as defined in the Maldives Penal Code, it shall be in accordance with the Maldives Penal Code. However, if the elements of the offense are met under both laws, the punishment for that offense shall be administered only in accordance with this law.

26. Repeal of Certain Sections of Some Laws

With the commencement of this law, Section 127 of Law No. 10/68 (Chapter 4 of the Maldives Penal Code) is hereby repealed.

27. Enacting and Enforcing Regulations

(a) Regulations required under this law shall be made and enforced by the Ministry of Home Affairs. And these regulations must be completed within 4 (four) months from the date this law comes into effect. Before such a regulation comes into effect, it must be submitted to the National Security Committee of the People's Majlis.

(b) Subsection (a) of this section does not prevent the Ministry of Home Affairs from amending a regulation made under subsection (a) or making an additional regulation under this law after the period mentioned in that subsection if the need arises. Even if such a change is made, the change must be submitted to the National Security Committee of the People's Majlis.

28. Commencement of the Law

This law shall come into effect on the day it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

29. Definitions

In this law, unless the context in which the word or phrase is included explicitly indicates otherwise, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given below:

(a) "Intimidation or threatening" means directly approaching a person and issuing a threat, or using communication tools to state that any level of damage or harm will be inflicted upon a person's body or property or a family member. Or to indicate that harm will be inflicted through a gesture shown or an action performed.

(b) "Public place" means all roads and alleyways of the islands of the Maldives, and all places, vehicles, and objects to which the public or a section of the public has explicit or presumed permission to enter at that time, with or without a fee.

(c) "Dangerous weapon" includes items that, if used as a weapon, could cause damage to a person's property, or pose a danger of serious harm to their life or body, as well as explosive devices, flammable substances, and any other items that can be used as weapons. This includes, but is not limited to, Taser guns, stun guns, and any other device that sends a shock to a person's body, causing a temporary state of incapacitation, items made to explode at a set time, items for which a specific method of detonation is planned, poisons, poison gases, biological or chemical substances that can cause death, dangerous acids, and radioactive materials.

(d) "Sharp object" includes the following items:
(1) Any type of knife;
(2) Swords and daggers;
(3) Razor blades, cutters, and cutter blades;
(4) Machetes, billhooks, adzes, and sickles;
(5) Sharpened or pointed pieces of iron, rods, wood, and other such items;
(6) Any other sharp object that can be used to injure a person.

(e) "Flick knife" refers to any knife constructed in such a way that the blade can be folded into the handle or slid into the handle, and upon pressing or pulling a button or a part on the handle, the blade emerges with the help of a spring.

(f) "Butterfly knife" refers to any knife that has two handles, where these two handles pivot on a hinge at the base of the blade, and the blade is concealed within the space between these two handles.
