Law on the Deposit of Materials at the National Library

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This is the law to establish the principles for depositing materials published in the Maldives, and materials published outside the Maldives by Maldivian citizens, Maldivian associations, Maldivian organizations, and Maldivian companies, at the National Library, and for the handling of such materials.

(b) This law shall be cited as the "Law on the Deposit of Materials at the National Library."

Purpose

2.
The purposes of this law are:-

(a) To make available materials published in the Maldives, and materials published by Maldivians outside the Maldives, to the users of the services of the National Library.

(b) To safely maintain the materials deposited at the National Library.

National Library

3.
In addition to the matters stated in this law to be carried out by the National Library, there shall be a National Library in the Maldives to work towards the advancement of readership, and to conduct and oversee all matters relating to the registration of public libraries operating in the Maldives.

Implementation of the Law and Formulation of Regulations

4.
The authority to implement this law, to formulate regulations required under this law, and to make necessary additions or omissions to the schedules of this law is vested in the Minister appointed by the government at the time to oversee the affairs of the National Library.

Materials to be Deposited at the National Library

5.
The following materials published by the parties mentioned in Article 1 of this law shall be sent to the National Library in accordance with Article 6(a) of this law after publication.

(1) Books

(2) Pamphlets, magazines, newspapers, and similar materials.

(3) Letterpress or music.

(4) Maps, plans, charts, posters, tables, and similar materials.

(5) Serials.

(6) Microforms or microfilms.

(7) Phonorecords.

(8) Audio and video recordings.

(9) Other electronic media.

(10) Any amendment made to any of the aforementioned items.

Sending Published Materials to the National Library

6.
(a) Every party that publishes materials mentioned in Article 5 of this law shall send a copy of the published materials to the National Library or to an address specified by the National Library, in accordance with Schedule 1 of this law.

(b) Materials sent under subsection (a) of this Article shall be sent at the publisher's own expense.

Determination of Materials to be Deposited

7.
A committee shall be appointed by the Minister appointed by the government at the time to oversee the affairs of the National Library to determine which of the materials sent to the National Library, in accordance with Article 6 of this law, shall be deposited and kept at the National Library, and which materials shall be returned.

Materials Published in More Than One Format

8.
In sending materials published in more than one format to the National Library, one format of publication may be chosen, unless the National Library requests otherwise.

Materials Published on the Internet

9.
A copy of various materials published on the internet by a Maldivian or a group of Maldivians through a magazine registered in the Maldives may be preserved and deposited for the use of the National Library.

Address for Sending

10.
If a specific address for sending materials required under this law has not been designated by the National Library, the materials shall be sent to the official address of the National Library.

Quality of Deposited Materials

11.
Materials deposited at the National Library shall be in the same condition as they were published. And such materials shall be of the best quality among the materials published at that time, and shall be materials published in accordance with the details specified in Schedule 2 of this law.

Previously Published Materials

12.
(a) If the National Library requests in writing to obtain an item, such as those mentioned in Article 5 of this law, which was published before this law came into effect, a copy of that item must be sent to the National Library.[1]

(b) If the publishing party has incurred an expense in making a copy of an item sent in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article, the cost incurred for it shall be reimbursed to that party by the National Library.

Use of Deposited Materials

13.
The National Library has the authority to release for public use, under the same principles as other materials in the National Library, those materials determined for public release in the regulations made under this law from among the materials deposited at the National Library under this law. And the National Library has the authority to lend such materials to another library for return under the regulations made under this law, whenever the National Library deems it necessary.

New or Differently Published Materials

14.
(a) The National Library has the authority to determine the circumstances under which previously published materials shall be considered similar and the circumstances under which they shall be considered to have differences.

(b) If a previously published item is republished and it falls under the circumstances determined to have differences in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article, then action must be taken in accordance with Article 6 of this law.

(c) If a previously published item is republished and it falls under the circumstances determined to be similar in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article, then it is not required to act in accordance with Article 6 of this law.

Responsibilities of the National Library

15.
The responsibilities of the National Library in depositing materials are stated below.

(1) To arrange for the materials deposited at the National Library to be used with ease by the users of the library's services.

(2) To safely protect and maintain the materials deposited at the National Library.[2]

(3) To maintain records of the materials deposited at the National Library, to establish an inventory of those materials, and to provide that information to the library users.

Protection and Liability

16.
(a) Even if an item deposited at the National Library contains writings or information that could be considered to diminish the honor and dignity of any person or party, no legal or judicial claim in any form shall be brought against the National Library in connection with such a matter. And the National Library shall not be held liable for any compensation that may be due to the party whose honor and dignity is diminished in connection with such a matter.

(b) In addition to the circumstances mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article, the National Library shall not be held liable for any loss that may be caused to any party due to an item deposited at the National Library.

Offenses and Penalties

17.
If this law is violated, within 14 days of being notified of the matter, if the price of the best quality copy of the published work is less than MVR 1000/-, then MVR 1000/- shall be paid to the National Library by that party, or if the price of the best quality copy of the published work is more than MVR 1000/-, then double that price shall be paid.

Definitions

18.
In this law, unless the context otherwise requires:

"To safely maintain" means to carry out all acts for long-term preservation, and to repair and maintain those materials in a manner that they will not be damaged or ruined.

"Materials deposited at the National Library" means all types of printed, graphic, audiovisual, and other technological means on which information is written, recorded, stored, or visible, or produced in such a manner.

"Printed" means to make letters or lines visible on any type of material for the purpose of creating any kind of mechanical impression.

"To publish" means to sell, rent, or make available for free to the public.

"National Library" means the National Library of the Maldives.[3]

"Every publishing party" includes foreign parties if they publish in the Maldives.

"Address" means a Maldivian address or an electronic address.

"Ministry" means the Ministry designated by the government at the time to oversee the affairs of the National Library.
Schedule 1

The number of copies of materials to be submitted to the National Library and the period for submission, in accordance with Article 6(a) of this law.
Type of Document	Number of Copies	Period to be Sent to the National Library
Written and printed documents (books, serials, charts, and posters, etc.)	2	1 month from publication
Non-printed materials (microforms, phonorecords, records, video and audio recordings, and other electronic media)	1	1 month from publication
Schedule 2

Details of the best quality copy to be deposited at the National Library, as mentioned in Article 11 of this law.
	Type of Document	Details
1.	Written and printed documents (books, serials, charts, posters, etc.)	Equal to the original, on the best quality paper it was published on, as follows:<br><br>(a) All information, charts, drawings in the original book, in full color (without differing from the original)<br><br>(b) Bound, or sewn, or glued as in the original.
2.	Non-printed materials (microforms, phonorecords, records, video and audio recordings, and other electronic media)	Copied to the best quality device available or of a quality equal to the original.
