Law on Built Environment Planning and Management

Chapter One
Introduction

Introduction and Name
1.
(a) This is the law to establish a robust legal framework for the planning and management of the built environment at the island, city, and regional levels, in a sustainable and responsible manner for the use of land in the Maldives, and to state the principles related to planning and managing the built environment, and the principles related to developing the built environment in a sustainable manner in accordance with the plans formulated by the planning authorities.

(b) This Law shall be cited as the "Law on Built Environment Planning and Management".

Purpose
2.
The purposes of this Law are stated below.

(a) To facilitate the planning of the built environment in a manner that allows for the development and maintenance of land in the Maldives in an economically, socially, and environmentally appropriate way;

(b) To establish principles for the planning and management of the built environment in the Maldives in a manner that facilitates sustainable and sound use of land;

(c) To establish principles for the planning and management of the built environment in a manner that facilitates the development of the administrative divisions of the Maldives on a decentralized basis;

(d) To facilitate the entities entrusted with various responsibilities under this Law to work towards achieving the purpose of built environment planning in fulfilling their responsibilities;

(e) To establish a system for monitoring the work of land developers and holding them accountable to ensure that the law is adequately enforced;

(f) To facilitate increased public participation in the stages of planning and developing the built environment.

Chapter Two
Administration of the Law

Built Environment Planning and Management Policy
3.
(a) The national policy on the planning and management of the built environment shall be determined by the President of the Republic on the advice of the Cabinet of Ministers.

(b) The national policy on the planning and management of the built environment shall be determined and published under subsection (a) of this section.

(c) The Minister shall bear the primary responsibility for implementing this Law by overseeing whether the planning authorities and other entities entrusted with the responsibility of implementing the national policy on the planning and management of the built environment are carrying out their required duties in a robust manner.

Responsibilities of the Ministry
4.
The responsibilities to be performed by the Ministry in implementing this Law are stated below.

(a) To formulate and implement regulations and principles required under this Law regarding the manner in which land in the Maldives is to be used and developed;

(b) To ensure that the plans formulated by the planning authorities are formulated in accordance with this Law and the regulations made under this Law, to approve the plans, and to ensure that those plans are being implemented;

(c) To register planners active in built environment planning in the Maldives and to maintain a register of such persons;

(d) To provide advice to planning authorities on matters where they require technical assistance;

(e) To take action against parties who violate this Law and the regulations made under this Law;

(f) To review and decide on matters submitted requesting a review of the decisions of planning authorities;

(g) To assess the extent to which this Law is being implemented, and to compile and publish relevant statistics and reports.

Formation of Committees, Panels, and Working Groups
5.
(a) The Minister has the authority to form technical committees, panels, or working groups in accordance with the regulations made under this Law, to provide technical advice to the Ministry on matters related to the planning and management of the built environment.

(b) The technical committee, panel, or working group formed under this section shall be composed of technical persons from the Ministry and relevant government agencies, and technical persons designated to represent civil society organizations and/or private parties.

(c) The following matters relating to the technical committees, panels, or working groups formed under this section shall be stated in the regulations made under this Law.

(1) The fields from which members must be included in the committee, panel, or working group, and the principles and procedures for appointing members to such committees;

(2) The purpose for which the committee, panel, or working group is formed, and the responsibilities assigned to that committee, panel, or working group;

(3) The manner in which meetings of the committee, panel, or working group will be held, and the procedure to be followed by the committee, panel, or working group in making decisions;

(4) The operating principles of the committees, panels, or working groups and other related matters.

Planning Authorities
6.
(a) The responsibility for formulating built environment plans, overseeing their implementation after approval, and issuing land development permits in accordance with the plans is vested under this Law in the planning authorities specified in subsection (b) of this section.

(b) For the purpose of this Law, the following shall be considered as planning authorities.
(1) The Ministry;
(2) City Council;
(3) Island Council;
(4) Authorities designated for planning urban areas;
(5) Authorities designated for planning industrial areas;
(6) Authorities designated for planning special economic zones.

(c) The following matters relating to the authorities specified in subsection (b) of this section shall be determined in the regulations made under this Law.
(1) If the powers in this Law are delegated to a specific planning authority, the ways and circumstances in which those powers may be exercised by that authority;
(2) Other matters deemed important for the most robust and cost-effective use of the powers vested in a planning authority by this Law.

(d) The Ministry may, in accordance with the regulations made under this Law, determine that the jurisdiction of a particular planning authority includes more than one planning area or a specific part of a planning area, for the purpose of planning and developing areas other than special areas developed under a special law concerning the planning and development of a particular type of area.

(e) In the event that the jurisdiction of a particular planning authority is determined as specified in subsection (d) of this section, that fact, and the area in which the authority's jurisdiction will apply in implementing this Law, shall be published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

Responsibilities of Planning Authorities
7.
The responsibilities to be performed by the planning authorities in implementing this Law are stated below.

(a) To formulate a Physical Development Plan for the island, city, or area falling within the jurisdiction of the planning authority;
(b) To submit the Physical Development Plan to the Ministry for approval, and to make the changes instructed by the Ministry to the plan;
(c) To accept and decide on applications for development permits in the island, city, or area falling within the jurisdiction of the planning authority;
(d) To ensure that all matters of built environment development and management in the island, city, or area falling within the jurisdiction of the planning authority are carried out in accordance with the plans approved under the law, and to implement those plans;
(e) To review and take action on complaints submitted to the planning authority under this Law.

Chapter Three
Physical Development Plan

Physical Development Plan
8.
(a) In order to facilitate the planned, sustainable, and sound development of land in the Maldives, planning authorities shall formulate a Physical Development Plan for the area under their jurisdiction.

(b) The Physical Development Plan formulated under this section is the master plan that determines the locations for establishing the main spatial components required for the development of an island, city, or area, the standards to be considered in determining those locations, and other matters related to the use, development, and management of the built environment of that place, including its land and physical resources. This includes planning the built environment of that island, city, or area, including determining residential areas, industrial and economic areas, public spaces and facilities for public use, and locations or areas for establishing infrastructure, and planning how to manage matters related to the protection and preservation of the natural resources, cultural heritage, and environment of that island, city, or area.

(c) The main purpose of the Physical Development Plan is to provide guidance on how to plan the long-term natural progress and development of a particular island, city, or area.

Types of Plans
9.
The Physical Development Plans referred to in Section 8 of this Law include the following plans.

(a) Regional Development Master Plan; this is a plan formulated by the authority designated to plan and develop a region, for a region determined under the government's policy for the decentralized development of the Maldives.
(b) City Development Master Plan; this is a plan formulated by the respective City Council for an island or area designated as an inhabited city.
(c) Island Development Master Plan; this is a plan formulated by the island council of that island for an island designated as an inhabited island.
(d) Urban Area Development Master Plan; this is a plan formulated by the authority designated under the relevant law for an area designated for development as an urban area.
(e) Industrial Area Development Master Plan; this is a plan formulated by the authority designated by the government to plan and develop islands and areas designated for development as industrial areas.
(f) Commercial Area Development Master Plan; this is a plan formulated by the authority designated by the government to plan and develop islands and areas designated for development as tourist resorts or for special economic purposes, which are not industrial areas.

Matters to be Considered in Formulating the Plan
10.
(a) The Physical Development Plans for the islands, cities, urban areas, and areas developed for industrial or economic purposes in the Maldives shall be formulated in accordance with the goals set to be achieved in the National Development Plan of the Maldives. And those plans shall be formulated in accordance with the standards specified in the regulations made under this Law.
(b) Planning authorities shall formulate Physical Development Plans in a manner that causes the least harm to the natural and human environment of the island, city, or area for which the plan is formulated. In that regard, special attention shall be paid to the following matters and to their maintenance and protection.
(1) Agricultural activities;
(2) Fisheries, bait fisheries, and mariculture activities;
(3) Infrastructural facilities;
(4) Industrial activities;
(5) Environmental protection;
(6) Natural resources;
(7) Historical buildings;
(8) Inhabited environment;
(9) Tourism.

Formulating a Plan through a Registered Person
11.
(a) Physical Development Plans formulated by planning authorities under this Law shall be formulated through a person registered as a planner.
(b) The qualifications of the planners referred to in subsection (a) of this section, and the procedures for registering and classifying planners, shall be stated in the regulations made under this Law.

Seeking Opinions and Consultations in Formulating the Plan
12.
(a) A Physical Development Plan formulated for a specific city or island shall be formulated with the opinions and consultation of the citizens belonging to that city or island.
(b) A Physical Development Plan formulated for urban areas, special economic zones, or areas designated for an industrial project shall be formulated with the opinions and consultation of the local councils to which the area belongs.

Approving the Plan
13.
(a) The Physical Development Plans formulated by planning authorities under this Law shall be effective only after their approval in the manner specified in this Law and the regulations made under this Law.
(b) After formulating the plans under this Law, planning authorities shall submit the plans to the Ministry for approval.
(c) Plans formulated under this Law shall be submitted to the Ministry for approval with the signature of a registered planner, as specified in the regulations made under this Law.
(d) The information and documents that must be submitted to the planning authorities along with the plan formulated by them when submitting a plan for approval under subsection (b) of this section shall be stated in the regulations made under this Law.
(e) The regulation referred to in subsection (d) of this section may require planning authorities to prepare and submit impact assessments of relevant sectors and other technical analyses and reports that would aid in the approval and/or implementation of the plan.
(f) If an application submitted to the Ministry for the approval of a plan under subsection (b) of this section fulfills all the requirements stated in this Law and the regulations made under this Law, the Ministry shall grant permission for the plan and approve it within a maximum of 90 (ninety) days from the date of submission to the Ministry.
(g) If the Ministry does not believe that an application submitted to the Ministry for the approval of a plan under subsection (b) of this section fulfills all the requirements stated in this Law and the regulations made under this Law, the Ministry shall, within a maximum of 60 (sixty) days from the submission of the plan, notify the planning authority that submitted the plan for approval to complete or amend the matter or matters. And, the planning authority shall be given a period of at least 30 (thirty) days to submit the plan for approval again after completing or amending the matter.
(h) If, after completing or amending the matters related to an application submitted for the approval of a plan as stated in subsection (g) of this section, the application is submitted again, and if that application fulfills all the requirements that must be met for the approval of a plan under this Law, the Ministry shall grant permission for the plan and approve it within a maximum of 30 (thirty) days from the date the amended plan is submitted to the Ministry.
(i) If a plan submitted for approval under this section is formulated in violation of or in conflict with the principles and standards stated in this Law and the regulations made under this Law, the Ministry shall not approve the plan and shall instruct the planning authority that submitted the plan to resubmit it after making amendments.
(j) If the Ministry decides that a plan submitted for approval under this section cannot be approved under subsection (i) of this section, the Ministry shall, within the period specified in subsection (f) of this section, inform the planning authority that submitted the plan in writing, stating in detail the reason why it cannot be approved.
(k) If the Ministry does not make a decision and notify regarding a plan submitted for approval as specified in this section within the period specified in subsection (f) or (g) of this section, the plan shall be deemed to have been approved.

Reviewing the Plan
14.
If, after a plan has been approved by the Ministry under this Law, it is later noted that a part of the plan that required amendment was not amended at the time of approval, the Ministry may, stating the reason and in accordance with the regulations made under this Law, inform the planning authority that formulated the plan and instruct it to review the plan again, make amendments to that part of the plan, and submit the plan for approval.

Amending the Plan
15.
(a) If, after a plan has been formulated and approved under this Law, an amendment needs to be made to the plan or a part of the plan due to a change in the area to which the plan relates, the necessary amendments to the plan shall be prepared in accordance with the regulations made under this Law, and those amendments shall be approved in accordance with Section 13 of this Law.
(b) The regulation referred to in subsection (a) of this section shall state the purpose of the individual plans included in the Physical Development Plan, the procedures to be followed in formulating those plans, and the basic information to be included in the plan.

Surveying
16.
Surveys for making plans formulated under this Law shall be conducted in accordance with the standards set out in the Land Act and the regulations made thereunder.

Chapter Four
Development Controls

Part One
Land Development Permit

Applying for a Land Development Permit
17.
(a) No land in the Maldives shall be developed except after obtaining a land development permit in accordance with this Chapter.
(b) To develop land in a city or an island, an application for a development permit shall be submitted to the council to which that city or island belongs.
(c) To develop land in areas other than cities or islands, an application for a development permit shall be submitted to the Ministry.
(d) The information and documents to be submitted to planning authorities with an application for a development permit under this section shall be stated in the regulations made under this Law.
(e) In granting a land development permit, the permitting authority must ensure that the proposed development work on the land is planned to be carried out in accordance with the relevant laws and regulations applicable to that work and/or the execution of that work.
(f) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, if a special law concerning the planning and development of a particular type of land or area specifies special procedures for issuing development permits, the procedures specified in the relevant special law shall apply to such land or area.

Matters Not Included in the Meaning of Development
18.
(a) For the purposes of this Chapter, in the case of a change in the use of land, if the previous use of the land and the proposed new use fall within the same category, such changes in the use of the land are not included within the meaning of land development.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, the following types of matters, which bring about a major change in the use of the land, are not included in the exception stated in that subsection.
(1) Dumping hazardous waste in a specific area of land designated for the disposal of non-hazardous waste and other unused items;
(2) Converting a part of a house used for residential purposes into a garage or for a commercial purpose;
(3) Other matters that the Ministry determines to be a major change in the use of the land and which are specified in the regulations made under this Law.

Issuance of Land Development Permit
19.
(a) If the planning authority is satisfied that an application submitted under Section 17 of this Law for a land development permit fulfills all the requirements stated in this Law and the regulations made under this Law, the permit shall be issued within a maximum of 30 (thirty) days from the date of application for such a permit.
(b) In issuing a development permit under subsection (a) of this section, the planning authority may decide to issue the permit without any additional conditions or with conditions as specified in Section 20 of this Law.
(c) If the planning authority is not satisfied that an application submitted to a planning authority for a development permit under Section 17 of this Law fulfills all the requirements stated in this Law and the regulations made under this Law, the authority shall, within a maximum of 15 (fifteen) days from the date of application, notify the applicant to complete or amend the matter or matters. And, that party shall be given a period of at least 15 (fifteen) days to resubmit the plan for approval after completing or amending the matter.
(d) If, after completing or amending matters related to an application submitted for a development permit as stated in subsection (c) of this section, it is resubmitted, and if that application fulfills all the requirements that must be met for the issuance of a permit under this Law, the permit shall be issued within a maximum of 15 (fifteen) days from the date the amended application is submitted to the planning authority.
(e) If an application for a development permit under this section violates or conflicts with the principles and standards stated in this Law and the regulations made under this Law, the planning authority has the power not to issue the development permit.
(f) If a planning authority decides not to issue a permit under subsection (e) of this section upon an application for a development permit under Section 17 of this Law, the planning authority shall, within the period specified in subsection (a) of this section, inform the applicant in writing, stating in detail the reason why the permit cannot be issued.
(g) If a decision on an application submitted under Section 17 of this section takes longer than the 30 (thirty) days specified in subsection (a) of this section, the planning authority shall inform the applicant in writing of the additional time required, stating the reason.
(h) If a planning authority fails to make a decision regarding the issuance of a development permit as specified in this section within the period stated in subsection (a) or (c), and if the application submitted fulfills all the requirements to be met under this Law and the regulations made under this Law, the permit shall be deemed to have been issued.

Determining Additional Conditions
20.
In granting a land development permit, the planning authority has the power to impose a condition or conditions from among the matters stated below, in order to develop the land to which the permit relates in the most desirable manner.

(a) Maintenance of archaeological sites that must be preserved with care as a developed area;
(b) Carrying out development work in a manner that ensures the protection of the landscape, protected trees, and other natural resources on the land where the development work is to be carried out or on the adjacent land;
(c) Protection of buildings located in the developed area or adjacent to that area;
(d) Taking the measures required to be taken in the Environmental Impact Assessment prepared under the relevant law in relation to any damage that may be caused to the environment during the course of the development works;
(e) Conducting a Social Impact Assessment to assess the social changes or damages that may arise from the development of the land, and taking the measures required to be taken in that assessment;
(f) Conducting a Transport Assessment to assess the changes or damages that may be caused to the transportation system as a result of the land development, and taking the measures required to be taken in that assessment.

Period Given for Completion of Development
21.
(a) When a land development permit is issued, a specific period for the completion of the development work to which the permit relates shall be determined and stated in the permit.
(b) Notwithstanding the determination of a specific period in the land development permit as stated in subsection (a) of this section, if the practical development works have not commenced within 1 (one) year from the date of issuance of the land development permit, the permit shall become void.
(c) If a person to whom a land development permit has been issued wishes to extend the period given for development under subsection (a) of this section, they shall submit a written request to the planning authority, stating the reasons why the development works cannot be completed within that period.
(d) If a request for an extension of the period is submitted under subsection (c) of this section, the planning authority that issued the permit has the authority to extend the period of the permit in accordance with the regulations made under this Law.

Making Regulations Regarding the Issuance of Land Development Permits
22.
The matters to be considered by planning authorities in issuing development permits as specified in this Chapter, the standards for issuing permits, the categories of permits, the information to be included in the permit, and other related principles and procedures shall be stated in the regulations made under this Law.

Part Two
Compliance

Acting in Accordance with the Law
23.
(a) The person to whom a permit is issued shall act in accordance with the land development permit issued under Section 19 of this Law and the conditions and periods specified therein, and in accordance with the development standards specified in this Law and the regulations made under this Law.
(b) If a person to whom a land development permit is issued by a planning authority fails to act in accordance with the issued permit and the conditions and periods specified therein by that authority, and in accordance with the development standards specified in this Law and the regulations made under this Law, or if development works are carried out without obtaining a land development permit, it shall be considered a violation of development controls.

Taking Action
24.
The following measures or a measure from among them may be taken against persons who carry out development works in violation of this Law.
(a) Issuing a warning notice;
(b) Issuing a compliance notice;
(c) Issuing a stop-work notice;
(d) Imposing a fine.

Issuing a Warning Notice
25.
(a) If a planning authority finds that any person has violated development controls, the planning authority shall send a warning notice to the owner of the land and the occupants of the land within 2 (two) years from the date of unauthorized work or within 2 (two) years from the date of violation of the permit.
(b) While a warning notice has been issued under subsection (a) of this section in connection with a violation of development controls, the planning authority shall not take any further action under this Law before the period specified in the notice expires.
(c) The maximum period for which a planning authority may issue a warning notice as stated in subsection (a) of this section is 30 (thirty) days.
(d) The information to be included in the notice mentioned in subsection (a) of this section and the instructions to be given to the parties to whom the notice is served shall be stated in the regulations made under this Law.
(e) If a violation of development controls by any person comes to the attention of a planning authority after 2 (two) years from the date the work was carried out, the planning authority does not have the right to take any action under this Law by issuing a notice under this section to rectify the work done in such a situation.

Compliance Notice
26.
(a) Planning authorities may issue a compliance notice to the person to whom a development permit has been issued in the following situations:
(1) Violation of development controls; or
(2) Violation of a Physical Development Plan approved under this Law.
(b) A compliance notice issued under subsection (a) of this section shall explicitly state the following matters:
(1) The matters that the planning authority finds to be in violation of the development controls or in contravention of the Physical Development Plan;
(2) The steps to be taken by the person to whom the development permit has been issued to rectify the matters stated in paragraph (1) of this subsection, and which of those steps must be taken within a maximum of 20 (twenty) days;
(3) That the compliance notice must be acted upon and completed within a maximum of 40 (forty) days from the date the compliance notice is issued.

Review of Compliance Notice
27.
(a) A person who receives a compliance notice may, within 20 (twenty) days of receiving the notice, submit a request to the planning authority that sent the notice under Section 33 of this Law to review the notice.
(b) With reference to subsection (a) of this section, after reviewing a compliance notice under a submission made under Section 33 of this Law, the planning authority may decide to postpone the enforcement of the notice, amend the notice, or withdraw the notice.
(c) If the planning authority finds that the notice cannot be dealt with in any of the ways specified in subsection (b) of this section, the planning authority may determine that the notice is a valid notice and decide that the notice cannot be reviewed.
(d) With reference to subsection (a) of this section, upon a submission to a planning authority to review a compliance notice under Section 33 of this Law, the authority shall, within a maximum of 15 (fifteen) days from the date the submission is received, decide on the notice under subsection (b) or (c) of this section and inform the person who submitted the request for review of the notice.
(e) The manner in which to apply for a review of a notice under this section and the procedures to be followed by planning authorities in deciding on such applications shall be stated in the regulations made under this Law.

Stop-Work Notice
28.
(a) If a compliance notice is sent to a specific person under Section 26 of this Law and the person fails to act on the notice within the specified period, the planning authority shall send a stop-work notice to that person to halt the ongoing development work.
(b) The notice mentioned in subsection (a) of this section shall be sent to the owner of the land that is in violation of the development controls or the Physical Development Plan, and to all parties responsible for the matter.
(c) The issuance of a notice under subsection (a) of this section shall be communicated to the occupants of the land for their information.
(d) A stop-work notice issued under this section shall include the following matters:
(1) A copy of the compliance notice related to the act to which the notice pertains;
(2) An order to cease the violation of the development controls or the Physical Development Plan and the period given to cease the violation (this period shall be a maximum of 48 (forty-eight) hours);
(3) The measures that will be taken if the order is not complied with within the period specified in the notice;
(4) That the person receiving the notice has the right to submit a request under Section 33 of this Law for a review of the notice.

Applying for a Permit to Resume Work
29.
(a) A person who receives a stop-work notice under Section 28 of this Law shall comply with the notice and stop the work within the period specified in the notice.
(b) A person who receives a stop-work notice may resume the work they were doing only after rectifying all the matters instructed to be rectified in the compliance notice issued under Section 26 of this Law, and after submitting an application to the planning authority for a permit to resume work and obtaining such a permit.
(c) The manner in which persons whose development work has been stopped by order of the planning authorities must act to obtain a new permit, and the procedures to be followed by the planning authorities in issuing such a permit, shall be stated in the regulations made under this Law.

Fining for Non-Compliance with a Compliance Notice
30.
If a person to whom a compliance notice is issued under Section 26 of this Law fails to act in accordance with the notice, the planning authority has the discretion to fine that person as follows:
(a) If the value of the development work or project to which the notice relates is less than 10,000,000 (ten million) Rufiyaa, a fine of an amount between 1,000 (one thousand) Rufiyaa and 10,000 (ten thousand) Rufiyaa;
(b) If the value of the development work or project to which the notice relates is more than 10,000,000 (ten million) Rufiyaa, a fine of an amount between 10,000 (ten thousand) Rufiyaa and 50,000 (fifty thousand) Rufiyaa;
(c) For each subsequent failure to comply with a compliance notice sent for a repeated offense, a fine of an amount between 100,000 (one hundred thousand) Rufiyaa and 200,000 (two hundred thousand) Rufiyaa.

Fining for Non-Compliance with a Stop-Work Notice
31.
If a person to whom a stop-work notice is issued under Section 28 of this Law fails to act in accordance with the notice, the planning authority has the discretion to fine that person as follows:
(a) If the value of the development work or project to which the notice relates is less than 10,000,000 (ten million) Rufiyaa, a fine of an amount between 1,000 (one thousand) Rufiyaa and 10,000 (ten thousand) Rufiyaa;
(b) If the value of the development work or project to which the notice relates is more than 10,000,000 (ten million) Rufiyaa, a fine of an amount between 10,000 (ten thousand) Rufiyaa and 50,000 (fifty thousand) Rufiyaa;
(c) For each subsequent failure to comply with a stop-work notice sent for a repeated offense, a fine of an amount between 150,000 (one hundred fifty thousand) Rufiyaa and 250,000 (two hundred fifty thousand) Rufiyaa; and
(d) In addition to the fines specified in subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this section, a fine of an amount not exceeding 1,000 (one thousand) Rufiyaa for each day that passes without compliance with the stop-work notice.

Enforcing the Notice
32.
(a) In relation to a compliance notice or a stop-work notice, officers authorized by the planning authority for this purpose are empowered to enter and inspect the place specified in the notice at a reasonable time of day after giving 48 (forty-eight) hours' notice, in order to verify whether the matters stated in the notices have been enforced.
(b) If, during an inspection conducted under subsection (a) of this section, the planning authority notes that the parties who received the notice have not taken adequate steps to enforce the compliance notice or have not stopped the work in accordance with the stop-work notice, the planning authority or a person designated by it is empowered to take further action as specified in the regulations made under this Law, in order to take the measures ordered in the compliance notice or to stop the works as per the stop-work notice.
(c) The person or persons ordered to enforce the compliance notice or the stop-work notice shall be responsible for the costs incurred in connection with any action taken by the planning authority or a person designated by it to enforce the compliance notice or the stop-work notice as stated in subsection (b) of this section.
(d) If the place being inspected under subsection (a) of this section is a place of residence, it shall be entered only after obtaining the permission of the owner of the place. Or, if such permission is not available, under a court order.
(e) The notice given prior to entering a place as stated in subsection (a) of this section shall state the reason for entering the place and the estimated time it will take for the person authorized for that purpose to inspect the place.
(f) An authorized officer going to inspect a place under this section must have in their possession an official document from the planning authority authorizing them for that purpose. And, if a person residing there or having an interest in the land wishes to see the document, the document must be shown to that person.
(g) An authorized officer shall not do anything that may cause any damage to the land or anything on the land while entering and inspecting a land or place. And if any damage is caused by an officer of the planning authority during the inspection of such a place or land, the planning authority shall be responsible for that damage.

Chapter Five
Submitting Complaints and Investigating Matters

Submitting Complaints to the Planning Authority
33.
Any party with a vested interest has the right to submit a complaint to the planning authority regarding the following matters:
(a) The refusal to grant a permit for land development, or the granting of a permit for land development with or without conditions;
(b) The receipt of a notice of amendment or revocation of a land development permit;
(c) The issuance of a compliance notice or a stop-work notice to a person carrying out development work;
(d) A decision by a planning authority not to issue a compliance notice or a stop-work notice to a particular party, which adversely affects the interest of another party;
(e) In addition to the matters stated in subsections (a) to (c) of this section, a decision by a planning authority that adversely affects the interest of that person;
(f) Damage suffered by a person as a result of any party's violation of this Law and the regulations made under this Law.

Submitting and Accepting Complaints
34.
(a) The manner of submitting a complaint under Section 33 of this Law, the procedures to be followed in investigating the complaint, and the procedures for the planning authorities to take action in relation to it after investigating the complaint shall be stated in the regulations made under this Law. And the period within which the planning authorities must investigate and conclude complaints submitted under Section 33 of this Law shall be stated in that regulation.
(b) A system for investigating complaints submitted to the planning authorities under Section 33 of this Law and a committee to be formed to investigate complaints shall be established and formed by the planning authorities within 60 (sixty) days from the commencement of this Law. And the necessary arrangements for submitting complaints that various parties wish to submit with ease shall be made by the planning authorities.
(c) If, in relation to a complaint submitted by any person, the planning authority finds, based on reasonable grounds, that the complaint has no basis, the planning authority shall inform the person who submitted the complaint of the decision made by the planning authority regarding the complaint and the reasons for it, within 7 (seven) days of making that decision.
(d) Unless otherwise stated in this Law, a complaint under Section 33 of this Law may be submitted within a maximum of 30 (thirty) days from the occurrence of the act to which the complaint relates.

Planning Authorities Investigating Matters on their own Initiative
35.
In the following situations, the following types of matters may be investigated by the planning authorities on their own initiative:
(a) Matters where the planning authority believes that any person has violated this Law and a standard established under this Law;
(b) Matters where the planning authority believes that any person has acted contrary to an instruction given by the Ministry or the planning authority to act in accordance with this Law and another relevant law; and
(c) Any other matter which the planning authority believes should be investigated based on a reasonable cause.

Procedures to be Completed in Investigating a Complaint
36.
The following procedures shall be completed in the investigation of matters by the planning authority under Section 33 and Section 35 of this Law.
(a) Notifying the person who submitted a matter or complaint in writing that the matter or complaint has been registered with the planning authority;
(b) Giving the person to whom the matter pertains an opportunity to respond to the matter; and
(c) Upon conclusion of the investigation of the matter, notifying the person who submitted the matter and the person to whom the matter pertains of the decision of the planning authority in writing.

Report on the Conclusion of the Matter
37.
(a) After investigating a matter under Section 33 and Section 35 of this Law, the planning authority shall prepare a report.
(b) The report prepared under subsection (a) of this section shall include the following matters:
(1) The manner in which the matter was investigated;
(2) The findings made by the committee during the investigation of the matter;
(3) The evidence on which the information and findings in paragraph (2) of this subsection are based;
(4) The matters that the planning authority sees in relation to the matter or in connection with it, or the matters proposed by the planning authority and its decision.

Re-review of the Planning Authority's Decision
38.
(a) A person who is dissatisfied with a decision made by a planning authority in relation to a complaint submitted under Section 33 of this Law or in an investigation of a matter on its own initiative under Section 35 of this Law has the right to submit a request to the Ministry to review that decision.
(b) The procedures for submitting a request for review of a decision made by a planning authority under subsection (a) of this section, and the principles for the manner in which the review will be conducted, shall be stated in the regulations made under this Law.
(c) A review committee shall be established in the Ministry to investigate matters submitted for review under this section.

Submitting a Matter to Court
39.
(a) As stated in Section 38 of this Law, after the Ministry's review committee makes a decision, if the person who submitted the matter does not accept the reasons stated in the notification sent to that person, that person has the right to submit the matter to court within 30 (thirty) days of receiving that document.
(b) The right to submit a matter to court under subsection (a) of this section shall be granted to any person only after completing the procedures stated in the regulations made under Section 38 of this Law.

Chapter Six
Miscellaneous

Disclosure of Information
40.
(a) Information related to the Physical Development Plans approved under this Law and the development permits issued under this Law shall be made public by the planning authorities in the manner specified in the regulations made under this Law.
(b) If the planning authority or the Ministry deems it necessary to publicize information related to a notice or any other decision issued under this Law to bring it to the attention of all affected parties, that information shall be made public in the manner specified in the regulations made under this Law.
(c) The report prepared by the committee formed by the planning authorities under Section 34 (b) of this Law after investigating a matter as stated in Section 37 of this Law shall be publicly published.
(d) Notwithstanding subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this section, the information and reports referred to in those subsections, or any part thereof, shall not be made public or disclosed in the following circumstances:
(1) The disclosure or publication of the information, report, or a part thereof would reveal a trade secret of a person or a company; or
(2) There is a possibility of obstructing an ongoing investigation in connection with a criminal matter; or
(3) There is a possibility of obstructing the fairness of a trial being conducted against a person; or
(4) There is a possibility of endangering national security.
(b) In disclosing any information under this section, if it contains any personal or private information of any person, that part shall be removed from the information to the extent that such information is not disclosed, and the part of the information that can be made public shall be made public.

Levying Fees or Charges
41.
In relation to the services provided by the planning authorities under this Law, those authorities may levy a fee or charge as determined in the regulations made by the Ministry under this Law.

Procedure for Sending Notices
42.
The procedures to be followed in delivering a notice that must be sent to any person under this Law, and the principles for deeming that the notice has been delivered to that person, shall be stated in the regulations made under this Law.

Legal Protection
43.
(a) For the purpose of enforcing this Law and the regulations made under this Law, in fulfilling the responsibilities of the Ministry or the planning authorities, and in acting under the powers vested in the Ministry or the planning authorities by this Law, no civil or criminal proceedings shall be brought against any employee acting under the instruction of the Ministry or a planning authority, in an official capacity, for an act done or omitted in good faith, in accordance with the law, or within the scope of a power conferred by a law.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, an employee acting under the instruction of the Ministry or a planning authority shall be held responsible for any damage caused by an act done intentionally or through negligence, under the relevant laws and regulations.

Taking Other Measures
44.
In addition to the fines imposed under Section 30 or Section 31 of this Law for violating a compliance notice or a stop-work notice issued by the planning authorities under this Law, the Ministry has the discretion to fine parties who violate this Law and the regulations made under this Law as follows:
(a) If the party who violated the law is a private individual, a fine of an amount not exceeding 15,000 (fifteen thousand) Rufiyaa. And if the act of violating the law is repeated, a fine of an amount not exceeding 50,000 (fifty thousand) Rufiyaa;
(b) If the party who violated the law is a legal person, a fine of an amount not exceeding 30,000 (thirty thousand) Rufiyaa. And if the act of violating the law is repeated, a fine of an amount not exceeding 100,000 (one hundred thousand) Rufiyaa;
(c) If a planning authority has acted in violation of a plan approved by the Ministry under this Law, a fine of an amount not exceeding 50,000 (fifty thousand) Rufiyaa.

Continuing Matters
45.
At the time of commencement of this Law, any instruction given, notice issued, order made, condition set, permit granted, plan approved, or any other decision made by a relevant government authority in relation to planning shall, to the extent that it is not inconsistent with this Law, be deemed to be a decision made in accordance with this Law.

Application of Other Laws
46.
(a) In fulfilling the responsibilities to be performed by the Ministry or a planning authority under this Law, in addition to the matters stated in this Law, other matters that the Ministry or the planning authorities are required to consider under another relevant law shall be considered.
(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Law, in the planning and development of urban areas, except for the formulation and approval of the physical development plan of such areas, priority shall be given to the principles stated in the Urban Development Law in the issuance of development permits for urban areas, in monitoring and taking action on development works, and in other matters of planning and managing urban areas.

Making Regulations
47.
(a) Unless explicitly stated otherwise in this Law, all regulations that must be made under this Law for its implementation shall be made and administered by the Ministry.
(b) In addition to the matters for which regulations are required to be made under this Law, the Ministry shall make regulations on the following matters.
(1) General regulations on built environment planning and management;
(2) Regulations on establishing development controls;
(3) Regulations on submitting complaints and investigating and taking action on complaints under the Law;
(4) Regulations on the registration and classification of planners;
(5) Regulations on the formation of technical committees, panels, or working groups, and on the operation of those committees, panels, or working groups;
(6) Regulations on the standards for formulating Physical Development Plans;
(7) Regulations on the approval, review, and amendment of Physical Development Plans;
(8) Regulations on the issuance of development permits, and on monitoring and taking action on the works of development authorities.
(c) The regulations that must be made under this Law shall be made and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives within a maximum of 3 (three) months from the date of commencement of this Law.

Commencement of the Law
48.
This Law shall come into force 3 (three) months from the date of its passing, ratification, and publication in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

Definitions
49.
In this Law, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given below.
(a) "Ministry" means the government ministry to which the responsibility of implementing policies on built environment planning and management is assigned at the time.
(b) "Minister" means the minister of the government ministry to which the responsibility of implementing policies on built environment planning and management is assigned at the time.
(c) "Agriculture" means the cultivation of grains, vegetables, fruits, and other products obtained from plants for consumption, the cultivation of grains, fruits, vegetables, leafy greens, mushrooms, and similar types of plants in farmlands, residential plots, and shelters specially made for agricultural work, and includes raising and growing animals for meat and eggs, and aquaculture, which includes breeding, raising, and cultivating aquatic living resources. This definition also includes buildings constructed for agricultural purposes and related matters.
(d) "Land Development Permit" means a permit issued by a planning authority for the development of land under the Physical Development Plan.
(e) "Physical Development Plan" means the plan or plans formulated by the planning authorities under Section 8 of this Law.
(f) "Environmental Impact Assessment" means the report stating the extent of impact on the environment, prepared under Law No. 4/93 (Law on the Protection and Preservation of the Environment of the Maldives).
(g) "Planning Authority" means the authorities specified in Section 6 (b) of this Law.
(h) "Land" means the area above the land of an island at low tide, all things under the ground included as part of the subsoil except for oil and precious minerals, things that grow naturally on the land (excluding plants and things cultivated by humans), and a reasonable height of empty space and airspace above the land for the most desirable use of the land. This includes:
(1) Land reclaimed from the sea;
(2) Land that is naturally contiguous to an island;
(3) Land temporarily covered by water due to a human act or a natural event.
(i) "Land Development" means construction, engineering works, excavation or sand mining, or other activities carried out under or above the ground, and changes made to the way that land or building is used for other activities, including various types of works carried out in lagoons and the sea.
(j) "Land allocation" means the designation of land in a specific area for housing, construction, economic purposes, social purposes, environmental protection, or for a state purpose under a law.
(k) "Planners" means persons registered under this Law to carry out the technical work of planning and designing land or areas for various purposes in cities, islands, or other areas, including planning and design.
(l) "Urban Area" means areas designated as an urban area under the relevant law.
(m) "City" means islands and areas that have been granted city status and are designated by the government and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.
(n) "Island" means every island declared by the government as an inhabited island under the Decentralization Act of the Maldives and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.
(o) "Garage" means places designated for the production and repair of items made of wood and metal, and related works, not including parking garages built for parking vehicles.


