Law on the Transfer of Offenders

Chapter One
Preliminary Articles

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This is the law that sets out the procedures for bringing back to the Maldives Maldivian citizens who have committed crimes and are serving sentences in foreign countries, to complete their sentences in the Maldives, and the procedures for transferring foreign nationals who have committed crimes and are serving sentences in the Maldives to their home countries to complete their sentences.

(b) This law shall be cited as the "Law on the Transfer of Offenders".

Purpose

    The purpose of this law is to achieve the following objectives:

(a) To facilitate the return of Maldivian offenders serving sentences outside the Maldives to Maldivian society by paving the way for their return to the Maldives; and

(b) To facilitate the return of foreign offenders serving sentences in the Maldives to their societies by paving the way for them to be sent back to their home countries.

Minister’s Responsibility

    The primary responsibility for the implementation of this law shall lie with the Minister.

Chapter Two
General Articles Regarding the Transfer of Offenders

Transfer of Offenders

    Unless otherwise stated in this law, "transfer of offenders" refers to the bringing of a Maldivian offender in a foreign country to the Maldives in accordance with this law, or the taking of a foreign offender in the Maldives to their country in accordance with this law.

A Maldivian Offender

    Unless otherwise stated in this law, "a Maldivian offender" refers to a Maldivian citizen who has committed an offense in a foreign country and is serving a sentence of imprisonment or any other form of detention in that country.

A Foreign Offender

    Unless otherwise stated in this law, "a foreign offender" refers to a citizen of a foreign country who has committed an offense in the Maldives and is serving a sentence of imprisonment or any other form of detention in the Maldives.

An Offender

    Unless otherwise stated in this law, "an offender" refers to Maldivian offenders serving a sentence in a foreign country or brought to the Maldives under this law, and to foreign offenders serving a sentence in the Maldives or taken to a foreign country under this law.

A Maldivian Citizen

    Unless otherwise stated in this law, "a Maldivian citizen" refers to every Maldivian citizen as defined in Article 9 (a) of the Constitution.

A Citizen of a Foreign Country

    Unless otherwise stated in this law, "a citizen of a foreign country" refers to persons who are considered citizens of a foreign country under the law of that country, and any person who is stated to be a citizen of that country in an agreement on the transfer of offenders between the Maldives and a foreign country.

An Offense

    Unless otherwise stated in this law, "an offense" refers to an act that is defined as a criminal offense under the laws of the Maldives and under the laws of the foreign country to which the offender is transferred.

Sentence

    Unless otherwise stated in this law, "sentence" refers to the final judgment of a court of law convicting a person of an offense and sentencing them to imprisonment or any other form of detention. If a court of law imposes a penalty on a person in a later stage after convicting them of an offense, it includes that penalty. However, the penalty imposed must be a penalty of imprisonment or any other form of detention.

Final Judgment

    Unless otherwise stated in this law, "final judgment" refers to a judgment of a court of law from which there is no further right of appeal.

Sentence Being Served

    Unless otherwise stated in this law, "sentence being served" refers to the ongoing enforcement of the final judgment of a court of law convicting a person of an offense. In cases where a court of law imposes a penalty at a later stage after the conviction, it includes the ongoing enforcement of that subsequent penalty.

Foreign Country

    Unless otherwise stated in this law, "foreign country" refers to the foreign country to which a foreign offender in the Maldives is transferred under this law, or the foreign country in which a Maldivian offender has been convicted and sentenced.

Circumstances for Transfer of Offenders

15.
(a) A Maldivian offender in a foreign country may be brought to the Maldives, and a foreign offender in the Maldives may be taken to their country, if the following main conditions are met:

(1) The offense committed by the offender is an offense under the laws of the Maldives and under the laws of the foreign country; and

(2) The sentence being served by the offender is a final judgment; and

(3) The sentence being served by the offender is a sentence of imprisonment or any other form of detention, and the remaining period of the sentence is at least 6 (six) months, or a sentence involving a greater penalty is to be served; and

(4) The necessary consent for the transfer of the offender under this law has been obtained; and

(5) Additional conditions stated in an international treaty to which the Maldives is a party, or in an agreement on the transfer of offenders between the Maldives and a foreign country, have been fulfilled.

(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) (1) of this article, when determining whether a particular offense is an offense under the laws of the Maldives and under the laws of the foreign country, it is not necessary for the offense or the act of the offense to be of the same degree in the Maldives and in the foreign country, or to be referred to by the same words or phrases, or to be in the same category of offense or act of offense in both countries. It is also not necessary for the elements of the offense to be the same in both countries.

Consent

16.
(a) An offender may be transferred under this law if their consent for the transfer, the consent of the competent authority of the foreign country, and the consent of the competent authority of the Maldives have been obtained.

(b) The consent required from the Maldives for the transfer of an offender under this law shall be given by the Minister.

(c) In deciding whether or not to give consent under paragraph (b) of this article, the Minister shall have regard to the purposes of this law.

(d) An offender must give or refuse consent under this article in writing.

(e) The Minister shall ensure that the consent given by the offender is given voluntarily, with a sound mind, and with knowledge of the consequences of giving such consent.

(f) Notwithstanding paragraph (e) of this article, if a particular offender is incapable of giving consent, consent shall be given on their behalf by their guardian, custodian, or any other person appointed to protect their interests.

(g) The country to which the offender is to be transferred shall be given the opportunity to verify that the consent given by the offender is given in accordance with paragraph (e) of this article.

(h) The Minister shall, in the regulations made under this law, establish the procedures to be followed to facilitate the matters referred to in paragraph (g) of this article.

(i) Unless otherwise provided in the law of the foreign country, the offender may at any time withdraw their consent to the transfer before being transferred to another country.

Chapter Three
Transfer of Offenders in the Maldives to Foreign Countries

Country to which Offenders may be Taken

    Offenders in the Maldives may be taken under this law to a country with which the Maldives has an agreement on the transfer of offenders, or to a foreign country that is a party to an international treaty on the transfer of offenders to which the Maldives is a party.

Transfer of Offenders in the Maldives

18.
(a) A foreign offender in the Maldives may be transferred to that country under this law following a request submitted to the Minister by the country requesting the transfer of the offender, by the offender themselves, or by a close relative of the offender, in accordance with the regulations made under this law.

(b) Upon receiving a request under paragraph (a) of this article for transfer to a foreign country, the Minister shall, after verifying that the conditions for the transfer of that offender as stated in this law are met, decide whether or not to consent to their being taken to that country.

Decision to Give Consent

19.
(a) If the conditions stated in this law are met in relation to an offender who requests to be transferred to a foreign country, the Minister may give their consent for the transfer of that offender.

(b) If the Minister decides to give consent under paragraph (a) of this article, the Minister shall inform the offender to whom the request relates, and shall also inform the country to which the offender wishes to be transferred.

(c) If the Minister decides not to consent to the transfer of an offender in response to a request submitted by a foreign country for the transfer of that offender under this law, the Minister shall inform the offender to whom the request relates, and shall also inform the country to which the offender wishes to be transferred. The reasons for reaching that decision shall be stated in the document sent.

(d) The Minister shall not give consent for the transfer of an offender to a country if there are grounds to believe that their life would be endangered, or that they would be subjected to torture or cruel and inhuman punishment, or that they would be treated in any other inhuman manner if they were taken to that country.

Providing Information on Treaties on the Transfer of Offenders

    The Minister shall provide information on agreements on the transfer of offenders between the Maldives and a foreign country to the offenders of that country who are in the Maldives.

How the Minister Should Act in the Transfer of Offenders in the Maldives

21.
(a) If the Minister decides to request the transfer of a foreign offender in the Maldives to that country, the Minister shall submit a request to the competent authority of that country stating that fact. The Minister shall also request the competent authority of that country to clarify their views on the transfer of the offender to that country and, if that country consents to the transfer of the offender to that country, how the offender's sentence will be enforced in that country.

(b) When the Minister submits a request to a foreign country under paragraph (a) of this article, if a request has been received by the Maldives for the extradition of the offender to another country under the relevant law, that fact shall be stated. In addition, information stated in the agreement on the transfer of offenders between the Maldives and that country, and any other information that the Minister deems important for making a decision on taking the offender to that country, shall be disclosed.

Permission for Transfer from the Maldives

22.
(a) If the conditions stated in this law are met in relation to an offender who requests to be transferred to a foreign country, the Minister shall, in accordance with the regulations made under this law, give permission for the offender to be taken from the Maldives to that country.

(b) The permission given by the Minister under paragraph (a) of this article is a document giving permission for them to be taken to that country to complete the enforcement of the sentence they are serving in the Maldives. The permission shall state that their sentence shall be enforced in that country in accordance with the law of that country, and shall order them to be kept in detention if they are to be kept in detention.

(c) If the offender to whom the permission issued under paragraph (a) of this article relates is a person released on parole under the relevant law of the Maldives, that fact, the conditions of their release, any changes to those conditions, the period of their release on parole, and the procedures agreed upon between the Maldives and that country for taking offenders on parole to that country shall be stated in the permission.

(d) The Minister shall give a copy of the permission given by the Minister under paragraph (a) of this article to the Commissioner of Prisons.

(e) Upon the giving of the permission by the Minister under paragraph (a) of this article, the Commissioner of Prisons shall, in accordance with the agreement on the transfer of offenders between the Maldives and that country and in accordance with the regulations made under this law, make arrangements for the offender to whom the permission relates to be handed over to the competent authority of that country in order to be taken to the country to which they are being transferred.

(f) The effect of the giving of the permission by the Minister under paragraph (a) of this article is the temporary cessation of the enforcement of the sentence that the offender to whom the permission relates was serving in the Maldives, and the temporary cessation of their detention in the Maldives for the purpose of enforcing their sentence.

(g) If any of the following circumstances arise, the permission issued by the Minister under paragraph (a) of this article may be amended or revoked by another permission issued by the Minister:

(1) The withdrawal by the foreign country of its consent to the transfer of the offender;

(2) The withdrawal by the offender of their consent to the transfer;

(3) The occurrence of any other circumstance stated in the agreement on the transfer of offenders between the Maldives and the foreign country.

Chapter Four
Transfer of Maldivian Offenders in Foreign Countries to the Maldives

Offenders who may be Brought to the Maldives

    Only Maldivian offenders may be brought to the Maldives under this law to complete their sentences in the Maldives.

Parties who may Request the Transfer of Maldivian Offenders

    A request may be submitted by the Maldives to a country for the transfer of a Maldivian offender serving a sentence in a foreign country to the Maldives, or a request may be submitted by that country to the Maldives.

Request from a Foreign Country for the Transfer of Maldivian Offenders

25.
(a) When a Maldivian offender serving a sentence in a foreign country requests to be transferred to the Maldives, a request may be submitted to the Minister by the competent authority of that country in accordance with the regulations made under this law.

(b) The following documents shall be submitted with every request submitted under paragraph (a) of this article:

(1) The name and date of birth of the offender, information that proves they are a Maldivian citizen, and any other information that identifies them;

(2) If the offender has an address in the Maldives, that address;

(3) A copy of the judgment of the court that convicted the offender, certified by the competent authority of that country to be a true copy of the original;

(4) A statement containing the manner in which the offense of which the offender was convicted was proved against them, and the important points noted in reaching that decision;

(5) A copy of the relevant articles of the law defining the offense committed by the offender;

(6) The type and duration of the penalty to be served by the offender, and the date on which the enforcement of the sentence began;

(7) A copy of the relevant articles of the law that prescribes the penalty for the offense committed by the offender;

(8) If the offender is a person released on parole in accordance with the relevant law of that country, an official document issued by the relevant authority evidencing that fact, and a copy of the relevant articles of the relevant law of that country;

(9) A declaration signed by the offender stating that they consent to be transferred to the Maldives;

(10) A declaration signed by the competent authority of that country stating that it consents to the transfer of the offender to the Maldives;

(11) If the offender is receiving any medical treatment, information on that treatment, and if the offender wishes to continue that treatment after being brought to the Maldives, a request from the competent authority of that country stating that fact;

(12) Any other information specified in the regulations made under this law or in an agreement on the transfer of offenders between the Maldives and that country that is necessary for the processing of the request.

(c) If the offender is an offender who is incapable of giving consent, the declaration of consent shall be made on their behalf by the person referred to in Article 16 (f) of this law.

(d) The documents submitted under paragraph (b) of this article shall be in English. If the original of a document is not in English, an English translation of that document, certified by a competent official authority of that country to be a true copy of the original, shall be submitted.

(e) The format for requests submitted by foreign countries under this article and the procedures to be followed in submitting such requests shall be specified in the regulations made under this law.

Request by Maldivian Offenders for Transfer to the Maldives

26.
(a) If a Maldivian offender in a foreign country wishes to be transferred to the Maldives, they may, instead of requesting in that country in accordance with Article 25 of this law, submit a request to the Minister in accordance with the regulations made under this law.

(b) The matters referred to in Article 25 (b) of this law shall also be fulfilled in relation to a request submitted under this article.

(c) Upon receipt of a request by the Minister under paragraph (a) of this article, the matter shall be communicated to the competent authority of the foreign country. The Minister shall act in accordance with the law of that country and in accordance with the agreement on the transfer of offenders between the Maldives and that country.

Giving Permission to be Brought to the Maldives

27.
(a) If the conditions stated in this law are met in relation to a Maldivian offender in a foreign country who requests to be transferred to the Maldives, the Minister shall, in accordance with the regulations made under this law, give permission for them to be brought from that country to the Maldives.

(b) The permission given by the Minister under paragraph (a) of this article is a document giving permission for them to be brought to the Maldives to complete the enforcement of the sentence they are serving in a foreign country. The permission shall state that their sentence shall be enforced in the Maldives in accordance with this law, and shall specify the period and manner in which they are to be kept in detention if they are to be kept in detention.

(c) If the offender to whom the permission issued under paragraph (a) of this article relates is a person released on parole under the relevant law of that country, that fact, the conditions of their release, any changes to those conditions, the period of their release on parole, and the procedures agreed upon between the Maldives and that country for bringing offenders on parole to the Maldives shall be stated in the permission.

(d) Upon the giving of the permission by the Minister under paragraph (a) of this article, the Commissioner of Prisons shall, in accordance with this law, make arrangements for the detention of the offender to whom the permission relates.

(e) If any of the following circumstances arise, the permission issued by the Minister under paragraph (a) of this article may be amended or revoked by another permission issued by the Minister:

(1) The withdrawal by the foreign country of its consent to the transfer of the offender;

(2) The withdrawal by the offender of their consent to the transfer;

(3) The occurrence of any other circumstance stated in the agreement on the transfer of offenders between the Maldives and the foreign country.

Chapter Five
Enforcement of Foreign Sentences in the Maldives

Enforcement of Sentence in the Maldives

    After a Maldivian offender who was serving a sentence in a foreign country is brought to the Maldives under this law, the sentence imposed on them shall be enforced in the Maldives in one of the following ways:

(a) Enforcement of the sentence imposed in that country in the Maldives as it is; or

(b) Adaptation of the penalty imposed on the offender in that country to the laws of the Maldives, and then enforcement of the adapted penalty.

Continuation of Sentence

29.
(a) Except in the circumstances referred to in Article 30 of this law, a sentence imposed in a foreign country shall be enforced in the Maldives as it is.

(b) For the purpose of enforcing a sentence imposed in a foreign country under paragraph (a) of this article, a sentence imposed in a foreign country shall be deemed to be a sentence imposed in the Maldives.

(c) For the purpose of enforcing a sentence imposed in a foreign country in the Maldives as it is, the Minister shall issue an order in accordance with the regulations made under this law.

(d) The order issued by the Minister under paragraph (c) of this article shall state the following:

(1) That the order is an order for the enforcement of the sentence imposed on them in a foreign country as it is; and

(2) That in enforcing the sentence in the Maldives, the period served by them in the foreign country shall be deducted, and upon deduction of that period, what the period for which they are to serve the sentence in the Maldives is.

Adaptation of Penalty

30.
(a) If the penalty imposed on a Maldivian offender who was serving a sentence in a foreign country is significantly different from the penalty prescribed for that offense in the laws of the Maldives, the penalty may be adapted in accordance with this article in order to make it consistent with the penalty prescribed in the relevant law of the Maldives.

(b) The adaptation of a penalty in the manner referred to in paragraph (a) of this article shall be by an order of the Supreme Court.

(c) The procedures for submitting a case to the Supreme Court under this article shall be specified in the regulations made by the Supreme Court under this law.

(d) In relation to a case submitted to the Supreme Court under this article, the court shall, in adapting the penalty imposed on a Maldivian offender who was serving a sentence in a foreign country, act in the following manner:

(1) Not to review the judgment of the foreign country that the offense was proved against them;

(2) The adapted penalty not to be greater than the penalty imposed on them in the foreign country;

(3) The amount of the adapted penalty to be as close as possible to the penalty imposed on them in the foreign country;

(4) The adapted penalty also to be a penalty of imprisonment or any other form of detention;

(5) Deduction from the adapted penalty of the period served by them in the foreign country out of the total duration of the penalty imposed on them in that country.

No Appeal

31.
(a) A sentence imposed on a Maldivian offender who was serving a sentence in a foreign country and is brought to the Maldives under this law shall not be appealed in the Maldives.

(b) A decision made by the Minister regarding the enforcement of a sentence imposed on a Maldivian offender who was serving a sentence in a foreign country and is brought to the Maldives under this law shall not be appealed in the Maldives.

Pardon or Commutation of Sentence

32.
(a) If the sentence of a Maldivian offender brought to the Maldives under this law is commuted under the relevant law of the foreign country, their sentence shall be commuted accordingly.

(b) If a Maldivian offender brought to the Maldives under this law meets the requirements for commutation of sentence under the Law on Pardon and Commutation of Sentence while serving their sentence in the Maldives under this law, their sentence may be commuted in accordance with that law.

(c) If a Maldivian offender brought to the Maldives under this law is pardoned under the relevant law of the Maldives or under the relevant law of the foreign country, the enforcement of their sentence shall be terminated and they shall be released from custody.

(d) If an offender transferred to a foreign country under this law is pardoned or their sentence is commuted under the law of the Maldives, the Minister shall inform the competent authority of that country of that fact.

Penalty

    For the purposes of this chapter, "penalty" refers to the penalty imposed on a person by a court of law at the time of or after convicting them of an offense.

Chapter Six
Miscellaneous

Seeking the Advice of the Attorney General

    The Minister shall make any decision that needs to be made by the Minister under this law after seeking the advice of the Attorney General on the matter, and in accordance with that advice.

Transit

35.
(a) If the country to which an offender in a foreign country is being transferred requests for them to transit in the Maldives during their journey to be transferred to another foreign country, and if the following conditions are met in relation to such a request, the Minister may grant permission for the offender to transit in the Maldives in the custody of a competent person of that country:

(1) The country to which the offender is being taken has requested for permission for transit before the offender is brought to the Maldives; and

(2) The country requesting permission for transit is a country to which offenders may be transferred under this law.

(b) The Minister may withhold permission for an offender to transit in the Maldives if the following conditions are met in relation to the offender for whom transit is requested:

(1) They are a Maldivian citizen;

(2) The offense for which they have been convicted is not an offense under the laws of the Maldives;

(3) They are a person wanted for committing an offense that is defined as an offense under the laws of the Maldives in violation of the laws of the Maldives.

(c) If the Minister grants permission for an offender to transit in the Maldives under paragraph (a) of this article, the assistance of the Maldives Police Service may be provided to the competent officer of that country who is in charge of the transiting offender.

(d) The Minister shall order the offender to be kept in custody in a manner determined by the Minister from the time the aircraft in which the offender who is transiting in the Maldives with permission under paragraph (a) of this article lands or berths in the Maldives until their departure from the Maldives.

Costs

36.
(a) Unless otherwise stated in an international treaty to which the Maldives is a party on the transfer of offenders or in an agreement on the transfer of offenders between a foreign country and the Maldives, the costs of bringing a Maldivian offender in a foreign country to the Maldives shall be borne by the Government of the Maldives.

(b) Although the costs of bringing a Maldivian offender in a foreign country to the Maldives are borne by the Government of the Maldives under paragraph (a) of this article, this law does not preclude the recovery of those costs from the offender in accordance with the regulations made under this law.

(c) Unless otherwise stated in an international treaty to which the Maldives is a party on the transfer of offenders or in an agreement on the transfer of offenders between a foreign country and the Maldives, the costs of taking a foreign offender in the Maldives to that country shall be borne by that country.

(d) If a request is made for an offender to transit in the Maldives during their transfer from one country to another, the country that requests permission for the offender to transit in the Maldives shall be responsible for the costs incurred in connection with the offender's stay in the Maldives.

Making and Enforcing Regulations

37.
(a) Unless otherwise stated in this law, the regulations that need to be made under this law shall be made by the Minister.

(b) All regulations that need to be made under this law shall be made and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives within 3 (three) months from the date this law comes into force.

Commencement of the Law

    This law shall come into force on the date of completion of 3 (three) months from the date of its passing, ratification, and publication in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

Definitions

    Unless otherwise stated in this law, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given below to those words and phrases:

(a) "Minister" refers to the Minister of the government ministry to which the responsibility for looking after matters relating to offenders serving sentences in the Maldives is assigned at the time.

(b) "Attorney General" refers to the Attorney General appointed by the President of the Republic under Article 133 of the Constitution.

(c) "Commissioner of Prisons" refers to the Commissioner of Prisons referred to in the Law on Prisons and Parole of the Maldives.

(d) "Court" refers, in relation to a court in the Maldives, to the meaning given to that word in the Law on Courts of the Maldives. In relation to a court in a foreign country, it refers to a court of law of that country.

(e) "Supreme Court" refers to the Supreme Court of the Maldives.

(f) "Transit" refers to the stopping in the Maldives, in accordance with this law, in cases where an offender in a foreign country travels via the Maldives in order to be transferred to another country.

(g) "Competent authority of a foreign country" refers to the authority in a foreign country that is responsible for arranging matters relating to the taking of offenders in that country to another country.
