Law on Uninhabited Islands of the Maldives

Introduction and Title

1.
(a) This is the law concerning the leasing of uninhabited islands of the Maldives under varuvaa (a form of tenure), the repossession of such islands, the leasing of such islands for purposes other than tourism, the planting and felling of trees on uninhabited islands, and other matters related to uninhabited islands.

(b) This law shall be cited as the "Law on Uninhabited Islands of the Maldives."

Leasing of Uninhabited Islands under Varuvaa

Leasing and Repossession of Uninhabited Islands under Varuvaa

2.
(a) From among the uninhabited islands within an administrative division, excluding those specified in subsection (b) of this section, the leasing of other uninhabited islands to various parties under varuvaa and their repossession from such parties shall be carried out by the Ministry responsible for implementing agricultural policies, in accordance with regulations made under this law.

(b) From among the uninhabited islands within an administrative division, the leasing of uninhabited islands that fall within the jurisdiction of a specific island or city to various parties under varuvaa and their repossession from such parties shall be carried out by the respective island or city council, in accordance with regulations made under this law.

(c) The procedures for leasing and repossessing uninhabited islands under subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall be specified in a regulation made by the Ministry responsible for implementing agricultural policies under this law.

(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, this law does not prevent the implementation of matters concerning the leasing of uninhabited islands under varuvaa to be entrusted to a council, in accordance with regulations made under this law.

Cultivation and Maintenance of Uninhabited Islands

3.
Parties who have leased uninhabited islands under varuvaa shall plant trees and cultivate and maintain the islands in accordance with this law and regulations made hereunder.

Responsibility of the Lessee under Varuvaa

4.
The responsibilities to be fulfilled by the party who has leased an uninhabited island under varuvaa regarding matters concerning the island, and other related principles, shall be specified in a regulation made under this law.

Subleasing or Renting of an Island Leased under Varuvaa

5.
(a) It is prohibited for a party who has leased an uninhabited island under varuvaa to lease, rent, or transfer the responsibility of maintaining the island to another party.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, this law does not prevent a party who has leased an uninhabited island under varuvaa from keeping their employees on the island for the purpose of its maintenance.

Extraction of Stones, Sand, and Gravel from Uninhabited Islands

8.
(a) It is prohibited to remove stones from the beach and lagoon of uninhabited islands leased under varuvaa. This section does not prevent the blasting of channels or the dredging of lagoons of uninhabited islands with the permission of the relevant Ministry, in accordance with government regulations.

(b) Sand and gravel shall be extracted from uninhabited islands leased under varuvaa, and from their beaches and lagoons, only after obtaining written permission for it, in accordance with regulations made under this law.

Repossession of an Uninhabited Island Leased under Varuvaa

9.
(a) Even if the party who has leased an uninhabited island under varuvaa has not violated this law, or a regulation made hereunder, or the agreement related to the leasing of the island, should the government need to take over the island for a public purpose before the expiry of the lease period, the Ministry or the Council has the authority to terminate the said agreement and repossess the leased island after giving 30 (thirty) days' notice to the lessee.

(b) If a party who has leased an uninhabited island under varuvaa violates this law, or a regulation made hereunder, or the agreement related to the leasing of the island, the Ministry or the Council has the authority to repossess the island from the lessee after giving notice.

(c) In the event that an uninhabited island leased under varuvaa is repossessed from the lessee under subsections (a) and (b) of this section, no compensation shall be paid to that party.

(d) In the event that an uninhabited island leased under varuvaa is repossessed from the lessee under subsections (a) and (b) of this section, if there is any movable property of that party on the island, a period determined by the Ministry or the Council shall be given for the removal of such property. And the period so determined shall be stated in the notice given under subsections (a) and (b) of this section.

Leasing of Uninhabited Islands

Leasing of Uninhabited Islands

11.
(a) Uninhabited islands shall be leased under this law in one of the following two ways, in accordance with regulations made hereunder:

(1) By public announcement in accordance with the regulations made under this law, to the party that submits the most suitable proposal in accordance with the principles laid down in the regulation.

(2) Upon submission of a detailed report on the proposed activity on the island in accordance with the regulations made under this law, to a party that fulfills the conditions specified in the regulation.

(b) The leasing of uninhabited islands for development as industrial islands for fisheries, agriculture, or other industrial purposes shall be carried out by the Ministry responsible for the management and maintenance of that industry, in accordance with regulations made under this law.[1]

(c) The regulation referred to in subsection (b) shall specify the principles for the classification of industrial islands.[1]

(d) The leasing of uninhabited islands for development as industrial islands for fisheries, agriculture, or other industrial purposes shall be carried out by the Ministry responsible for the management and maintenance of that industry, in accordance with regulations made under this law.

(e) The regulation referred to in subsection (b) shall specify the principles for the classification of industrial islands.

(f) From among the uninhabited islands within an administrative division, those that fall within the jurisdiction of an island or city shall be leased for purposes other than development as industrial islands by the respective island or city council, in accordance with regulations made under this law.

Conditions for Leasing Uninhabited Islands without Public Announcement

12.
An island shall be leased under Section 11(b) of this law only if the following conditions are met:

(a) The activity proposed to be carried out on the island is beneficial to the Maldives, or it is beneficial to the citizens of the Maldives.

(b) The party applying for the island has the capability to carry out the proposed activity on the island.

(c) The party applying for the island has the financial means to carry out the proposed activity on the island.

Lease Period for Uninhabited Islands

13.
(a) Islands leased under Section 11 of this law shall be leased for a period of 21 (twenty-one) calendar years from the date the island is handed over to the lessee.[1]

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, this law does not prevent the leasing of an uninhabited island for a shorter period than that specified in that subsection or for a period not exceeding 50 (fifty) years in the following circumstances:[1]

(1) If the party wishing to lease the island proposes to lease it for a period shorter than 21 (twenty-one) years, and if the relevant Ministry agrees to lease it for that period, the Ministry has the authority to do so.

(2) In the case where the lessee of an island leased for 21 (twenty-one) years wishes to continue the activities on the island after the expiry of the lease period and submits a request to extend the lease period, the Ministry has the authority to lease the island for a total period of 50 (fifty) years, including the initial 21 (twenty-one) year period.[1] And, if an extension of the lease period is requested in this manner, the lessee must submit a request to the relevant Ministry at least 12 (twelve) months before the expiry of the lease period.

(c) The conditions to be fulfilled by the party wishing to lease an island and the procedures to be followed in applying for the lease under this section shall be specified in a regulation made under this law.

Agreement for Leasing Uninhabited Islands

14.
Uninhabited islands shall be leased under Section 11 of this law under an agreement made between the relevant Ministry or Council and the lessee. This agreement shall include the following:

(a) The lease period.
(b) The rent amount and the method of payment.
(c) The activities to be carried out on the island and the manner in which they will be carried out.
(d) The course of action in case the lessee violates the agreement.
(e) The manner in which the agreement can be terminated.
(f) The course of action regarding the buildings and property on the island upon the expiry of the agreement or upon its termination before the expiry of the term.

No Repossession of an Island without Two Years' Notice Before the Expiry of the Lease Period

15.
An island leased under Section 11 of this law shall not be repossessed from the lessee before the expiry of the lease period without giving at least two years' notice, except in a situation where it is required for the defense of the Maldives.

Sale of Investment Made on an Island

16.
(a) The investment made on an island leased under Section 11 of this law may be sold by the lessee to another party only after bringing the proposed investment on the island to a level acceptable to the relevant Ministry and after obtaining written permission from the Ministry or Council that leased the island.

(b) If the investment made on the island is sold in accordance with subsection (a) of this section, the agreement made between the lessee and the relevant Ministry or Council may be transferred to the buyer of the investment for the remainder of the agreement period.

Subleasing to a Third Party

17.
An island leased under Section 11 of this law may be subleased by the lessee to another party only after commencing the proposed activity on the island to a standard acceptable in accordance with the regulations made under this law, and after obtaining written permission from the Ministry or Council that leased the island.

Islands Currently Used for Various Activities

18.
Among the uninhabited islands leased under varuvaa, for islands where various activities are being carried out with the permission of the relevant Ministry at the time of the commencement of this law, the party who has leased the island shall, within one year from the date of commencement of this law, apply to the relevant Ministry to have such islands designated as islands leased under Section 11 of this law and shall enter into the agreement referred to in Section 14 of this law.

Exemption

19.
Islands designated for state purposes, islands on which the government directly implements various projects, islands on which companies with 100% government shareholding carry out various activities, and islands on which various activities are carried out in partnership with foreign parties and the government, shall be exempted from the principles stated in Section 11 of this law.

Islands Leased Before the Commencement of this Law

20.
This law shall not affect the lease period of uninhabited islands leased by the relevant Ministry for a specific period under an agreement before the commencement of this law. The lease period of such islands shall be calculated from the commencement date of the lease period stated in the agreement.

Leasing of Land or Parts of Uninhabited Islands

21.
This law does not prevent the leasing of land or parts of uninhabited islands in accordance with a procedure established by the government.

General Principles Regarding Uninhabited Islands Not Within the Jurisdiction of an Island or City Council

21-1.
(a) From among the uninhabited islands within an administrative division that are not within the jurisdiction of any island or city, the islands to be leased under varuvaa, the islands to be developed as industrial islands, the islands to be leased for other purposes, and the uninhabited islands to be designated for other various purposes shall be determined by the President of the Republic.

(b) From among the uninhabited islands within an administrative division that are not within the jurisdiction of any island or city, such islands shall be entrusted to a council only after obtaining the permission of the relevant government Ministry.

(c) The principles and procedures for granting the permission referred to in subsection (b) of this section shall be specified in a regulation made under this law.

General Part

Entering and Leaving Uninhabited Islands

21-2.
(a) No person shall enter an uninhabited island leased under varuvaa or a leased uninhabited island, or enter the lagoon area of such an island as defined in the regulations made under this law, except with the written permission of the lessee.[2]

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, this law does not prevent the following parties from entering an uninhabited island leased under varuvaa or a leased uninhabited island, or entering the lagoon of such an island, without charge in the following circumstances:

(1) By the relevant Ministry or with the written permission of the relevant Ministry.
(2) The entry of the lessee to an uninhabited island and the entering of the lagoon area of an uninhabited island.
(3) In order to fulfill a legal responsibility of a security service.
(4) In case of bad weather, distress, or for the purpose of saving lives and property in an incident at sea, or in any other emergency situation.

Felling and Removal of Trees from Uninhabited Islands

21-3.
Trees shall be felled, removed, or transported from one place to another on an uninhabited island leased under varuvaa or a leased uninhabited island only in accordance with the regulations made under this law and the relevant laws and regulations formulated for environmental protection.

Non-applicability of this Law to Uninhabited Islands Leased for Tourism Purposes

21-4.
The principles stated in this law shall not apply to uninhabited islands leased for tourism purposes.[3]

Action Against Those Who Violate the Law

21-5.
(a) Unless otherwise stated in this law, the Ministry has the authority to take action against those who violate this law or a regulation made hereunder, in accordance with the principles specified in the regulation made under this law, taking into account the extent of the violation, as follows:

(1) In relation to an uninhabited island leased under varuvaa, a fine not exceeding MVR 1,000,000 (one million), taking into account the gravity of the offense, and if the person who committed the act is the lessee of the island, to take the measures specified in the agreement for the leasing of the island.
(2) In relation to a leased uninhabited island, a fine not exceeding MVR 1,000,000 (one million), taking into account the gravity of the offense, and if the person who committed the act is the lessee of the island, to take the measures specified in the agreement for the leasing of the island.
(3) In relation to uninhabited islands other than those leased under varuvaa or leased uninhabited islands, to fine the person who committed the act an amount not exceeding MVR 1,000,000 (one million), taking into account the gravity of the offense.

(b) The regulation referred to in subsection (a) of this section shall specify in detail the amounts of fines to be imposed based on the gravity of the violation and the procedures for fining.

(c) If an act committed by any person in violation of this law or a regulation made hereunder constitutes a criminal offense, the Ministry shall submit the matter to the relevant authorities for investigation. Furthermore, if such an act is a criminal offense under the Penal Code of the Maldives, this law does not prevent the filing of a criminal charge against the perpetrator of such an act under the Penal Code of the Maldives, in addition to the administrative action prescribed under this law.[4][5]

Making of Regulations

22.
Unless otherwise stated in this law, the following regulations to be made under this law shall be made and implemented by the following authorities:

(a) Regulations concerning islands leased under varuvaa and uninhabited islands leased for fisheries and agricultural purposes shall be made and implemented by the Ministry responsible for implementing fisheries and agricultural policies.

(b) Regulations concerning uninhabited islands leased for economic purposes shall be made and implemented by the Ministry responsible for implementing economic policies.[1]

(c) Regulations concerning uninhabited islands leased for other purposes shall be made and implemented by a Ministry designated by the President of the Republic.

Repealed Laws

23.
Upon the commencement of this law, Law No. 29/79 (Law on Planting and Felling of Trees on Islands of the Maldives, and on Uninhabited Islands, and Places like Goifaalabba) and Law No. 30/78 (Law on Prohibited Acts Concerning Government Uninhabited Islands and Lands like Goifaalabba and Government Timber) are hereby repealed.

