Law on Combating Gang Crimes and Other Serious Crimes

**Chapter One**
**Introduction**

**Introduction and Name**

1. 
(a) This is the law to stop dangerous and organized serious crimes in the Maldives by defining related crimes and punishments, to establish the powers granted to law enforcement agencies to stop such crimes, to establish procedures for taking measures to keep children away from such crimes, to establish procedures for monitoring and controlling persons suspected of such crimes, and to establish other related procedures.
(b) This law shall be cited as the "Law on Combating Gang Crimes and Other Serious Crimes".

**Purpose**

2. The purpose of this law is to achieve the following objectives.
(a) To stop the commission of organized serious crimes and other dangerous crimes in the Maldives, by defining acts that are considered crimes, including dangerous and organized serious crimes and the crime of acquiring and obtaining illicit wealth, and to determine the punishments for those crimes.
(b) To grant special powers to law enforcement agencies to take appropriate action against those who commit organized serious crimes and other dangerous crimes.
(c) To establish procedures for taking special measures to remove children from the environment where such crimes are committed and to protect them, and to facilitate their reintegration into society in a positive manner.
(d) To protect the public and society from organized serious crimes and other dangerous crimes by establishing special procedures for monitoring the whereabouts of those who commit such crimes and for taking action.

**Jurisdiction of the Law**

3. Unless otherwise stated in this law, this law shall apply to the organized crimes and dangerous crimes defined in this law, committed in the following circumstances.
(a) Where the entire crime or part of the crime is committed in the Maldives; or
(b) Where the entire crime or part of the crime is committed on a sea or air vessel registered in the Maldives; or
(c) Where the entire crime or part of the crime is committed by a Maldivian citizen outside the territory of the Maldives; or
(d) Where the entire crime or part of the crime is committed by a person other than a Maldivian citizen outside the territory of the Maldives.

**Chapter Two**
**Glossary of Concepts**

**Organized Serious Crime**

4. 
(a) In this law, "organized serious crime" refers to any of the following crimes committed by an organized criminal group.
    (1) The crime of drug trafficking;
    (2) The crime of human trafficking;
    (3) The crime of trafficking in goods prohibited from being brought into the Maldives;
    (4) The crime of counterfeiting valuable items and presenting them as genuine;
    (5) Dangerous crime;
    (6) All violent crimes for which the punishment is imprisonment for a term longer than 10 (ten) years.
(b) For the purpose of paragraph (a)(1) of this Article, the crime of drug trafficking refers to the crime of drug trafficking as defined in Law No. 17/2011 (Narcotics Act).
(c) For the purpose of paragraph (a)(2) of this Article, the crime of human trafficking refers to the crime of human trafficking as defined in Law No. 12/2013 (Anti-Human Trafficking Act).
(d) For the purpose of paragraph (a)(3) of this Article, the crime of trafficking in goods prohibited from being brought into the Maldives refers to the crime of trading in any item prohibited from being imported into the Maldives by any law of the Maldives.
(e) For the purpose of paragraph (a)(4) of this Article, the crime of counterfeiting valuable items and presenting them as genuine refers to the crime defined in Article 310 of Law No. 9/2014 (Maldives Penal Code).
(f) For the purpose of paragraph (a)(5) of this Article, a dangerous crime refers to a crime among the crimes stated in Article 33 of this law.
(g) For the purpose of paragraph (a)(6) of this Article, a violent crime refers to any crime involving a violent act among the crimes committed against individuals, as defined in the relevant criminal laws of the Maldives.

**Dangerous Crime**

5. In this law, "dangerous crime" refers to a crime among the crimes stated in Article 33 of this law.

**Organized Criminal Group**

6. 
(a) In this law, an "organized criminal group" refers to a structured group of three or more persons, working together to commit a serious criminal offense or more than one such offense, or to obtain, directly or indirectly, a financial or other material benefit through the commission of other criminal offenses. This definition includes gangs, criminal enterprises, criminal syndicates, and other such groups.
(b) For the purpose of paragraph (a) of this Article, when determining whether a particular group is an organized criminal group, the following shall not be considered: that the persons belonging to the group may have changed from time to to time, or that only one or some of the persons belonging to the group participate in committing, organizing, or planning a criminal offense, or that the crime or more than one crime committed by the group is not actually committed by the members of the group.

**Structured Group**

7. 
(a) In this law, a "structured group" refers to a group that is not a group that comes together only for the purpose of committing a specific crime, but a group that works together in an organized manner to commit criminal offenses on more than one occasion.
(b) For the purpose of paragraph (a) of this Article, when determining whether a particular group is a structured group, it is not necessary that specific responsibilities or positions be assigned to certain individuals within the group, or that some members of the group be employed by a particular person in the group or receive remuneration from a particular person.

**Member of an Organized Criminal Group**

8. 
(a) In this law, a "member of an organized criminal group" refers to any person who holds a specific position or responsibility in an organized criminal group, and any person who, even without a specific position or responsibility, plays the role of a member of such a group or belongs to such a group.
(b) For the purpose of paragraph (a) of this Article, unless proven otherwise, any person who displays or uses the insignia of an organized criminal group or who participates in the activities of an organized criminal group shall be deemed to be a person belonging to an organized criminal group.

**Claiming to be a Member of an Organized Criminal Group**

9. In this law, "claiming to be a member of an organized criminal group" refers to a person, by word, act, expression, or otherwise, representing himself as a member of an organized criminal group. This includes displaying the insignia of an organized criminal group.

**Operating an Organized Criminal Group**

10. In this law, "operating an organized criminal group" refers to undertaking any responsibility in carrying out the activities of such a group, including forming and running an organized criminal group, recruiting people for such a group, carrying out the activities of such a group, financing such groups, and giving instructions and orders to persons belonging to such groups.

**Insignia of an Organized Criminal Group**

11. In this law, "insignia of an organized criminal group" refers to any symbol used to show affiliation with, connection to, or support for a particular organized criminal group, and which symbolizes any of those things. This includes names, drawings, writings, logos, seals, and slogans.

**Displaying the Insignia of an Organized Criminal Group**

12. In this law, "displaying the insignia of an organized criminal group" refers to displaying an insignia of an organized criminal group in a public place in one of the following ways.
(a) By affixing it to the body or clothing, or by displaying it in or on such a place or thing in any other way; or
(b) By affixing it in places where members of an organized criminal group gather or are active, or on a vehicle driven by such a member, or on any object used by such a member, or by displaying it in any other way.

**Recruiting People for an Organized Criminal Group**

13. In this law, "recruiting people for an organized criminal group" refers to recruiting people to join an organized criminal group or to work in or with the group. This includes the following acts.
(a) Giving speeches to encourage joining such a group;
(b) Offering or giving a financial or material benefit to join such a group;
(c) Forcing someone to join such a group;
(d) Requesting or inviting to join such a group in any other way.

**Participating in an Organized Criminal Group**

14. In this law, "participating in an organized criminal group" refers to joining a group as a member of an organized criminal group, or playing the role of a member of such a group, or participating in the activities of such a group.

**Activity of an Organized Criminal Group**

15. In this law, "activity of an organized criminal group" refers to an unlawful activity conducted or organized by an organized criminal group or a member of such a group.

**Seeking Support for an Organized Criminal Group**

16. In this law, "seeking support for an organized criminal group" refers to a person committing any act, whether by word or deed, to seek the support of others for an organized criminal group.

**Supporting an Organized Criminal Group**

17. In this law, "supporting an organized criminal group" refers to a person committing any act, whether by word or deed, to show support for an organized criminal group.

**Chapter Three**
**Regarding Organized Crimes**

**Part One**
**Regarding Crimes**

**The Crime of Forming or Operating an Organized Criminal Group**

18. 
(a) It is an offense for any person to form or operate an organized criminal group.
(b) Attempting to commit the offense stated in paragraph (a) of this Article, or aiding in the commission of that offense, or participating in it in any form, is an offense.
(c) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 25 (twenty-five) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 3,000,000 (three million) and MVR 10,000,000 (ten million).
(d) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (b) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 18 (eighteen) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 2,000,000 (two million) and MVR 5,000,000 (five million).

**The Crime of Recruiting People for an Organized Criminal Group**

19. 
(a) It is an offense to recruit people for an organized criminal group.
(b) Attempting to commit the offense stated in paragraph (a) of this Article, or aiding in the commission of that offense, or participating in it in any form, is an offense.
(c) If the victim of the act of the offense stated in paragraph (a) of this Article is a child, the punishment for the person who committed the offense is imprisonment for a term of 25 (twenty-five) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 3,000,000 (three million) and MVR 10,000,000 (ten million).
(d) In a situation other than that stated in paragraph (c) of this Article, the punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 20 (twenty) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 2,000,000 (two million) and MVR 7,000,000 (seven million).
(e) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (b) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 15 (fifteen) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 1,000,000 (one million) and MVR 3,000,000 (three million).

**The Crime of Participating in an Organized Criminal Group or in the Activities of Such a Group**

20. 
(a) It is an offense for any person to participate in an organized criminal group.
(b) In the following circumstances, it is an offense for any person to participate in the activities of an organized criminal group through an act or omission.
(c) Attempting to commit the offense stated in paragraph (a) of this Article, or aiding in the commission of that offense, or participating in it in any form, is an offense.
(d) Attempting to commit the offense stated in paragraph (b) of this Article, or aiding in the commission of that offense, or participating in it in any form, is an offense.
(e) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 15 (fifteen) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 1,000,000 (one million) and MVR 3,000,000 (three million).
(f) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (b) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 12 (twelve) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 800,000 (eight hundred thousand) and MVR 2,000,000 (two million).
(g) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (c) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 10 (ten) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 750,000 (seven hundred and fifty thousand) and MVR 1,000,000 (one million).
(h) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (d) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 8 (eight) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand) and MVR 750,000 (seven hundred and fifty thousand).
(i) In determining the offense stated in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Article, the court may consider the following matters relating to the person suspected of the crime.
    (1) That he uses an insignia of the group;
    (2) Frequent association with any person who was or is active in forming or operating the group, or with any other member of the group;
    (3) That he has received any benefit from the group;
    (4) Frequent participation in activities conducted by the group under the order or instruction of a person or persons who formed the group or are active in operating the group.

**Claiming to be a Member of an Organized Criminal Group**

21. 
(a) It is an offense for any person to claim to be a member of an organized criminal group.
(b) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 12 (twelve) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 800,000 (eight hundred thousand) and MVR 2,000,000 (two million).

**Displaying the Insignia of an Organized Criminal Group**

22. 
(a) It is an offense for any person to knowingly display an insignia of an organized criminal group.
(b) If an act stated in paragraph (a) of this Article is committed by a member of an organized criminal group, or a person belonging to an organized criminal group, or a person in the circumstances stated in Article 20(i) of this law, it shall be presumed that the person did so knowingly.
(c) It is not an offense for the following persons to display an insignia stated in paragraph (a) of this Article in the following circumstances.
    (1) By law enforcement agencies as a measure to prevent crime;
    (2) Use in an activity conducted for training by law enforcement agencies;
    (3) For the purpose of academic research;
    (4) In reporting news by a licensed media outlet.
(d) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 3 (three) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 200,000 (two hundred thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand).

**Drawing or Affixing the Insignia of an Organized Criminal Group in Public Places**

23. 
(a) It is an offense for any person to knowingly draw or affix an insignia of an organized criminal group in a public place.
(b) For the purpose of paragraph (a) of this Article, a public place includes the street walls of residential places, the street walls of private and public places, the street, and any other place where the public enters and exits or which is visible to the public.
(c) If an act stated in paragraph (a) of this Article is committed by a member of an organized criminal group, or a person belonging to an organized criminal group, or a person in the circumstances stated in Article 20(i) of this law, it shall be presumed that the person did so knowingly.
(d) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 3 (three) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 200,000 (two hundred thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand).
(e) Attempting to commit the offense stated in paragraph (a) of this Article, or aiding in the commission of that offense, or participating in it in any form, is an offense.
(f) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (e) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 2 (two) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand) and MVR 300,000 (three hundred thousand).

**Seeking Support for an Organized Criminal Group**

24. 
(a) It is an offense to seek support for an organized criminal group.
(b) Attempting to commit the offense stated in paragraph (a) of this Article, or aiding in the commission of that offense, or participating in it in any form, is an offense.
(c) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 8 (eight) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand) and MVR 750,000 (seven hundred and fifty thousand).
(d) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (b) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 5 (five) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 300,000 (three hundred thousand) and MVR 600,000 (six hundred thousand).

**Using Private Places for Committing Organized Crimes**

25. 
(a) It is an offense for the owner of a place, or the person renting the place, or the person present at the place at the time, or the person maintaining the place, or the person in charge of the place to allow, permit or facilitate the commission of an organized crime in that place, knowing that such a crime is being committed or having reason to believe so.
(b) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 2 (two) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand) and MVR 300,000 (three hundred thousand).

**The Crime of Intimidating Witnesses**

26. 
(a) It is an offense to threaten to cause or cause injury or harm to a person or any other person, or to cause such injury or harm, in order to prevent a person from giving evidence in court regarding an organized criminal group, or to prevent a person from giving information to a law enforcement authority regarding such a crime.
(b) Attempting to commit the offense stated in paragraph (a) of this Article, or aiding in the commission of that offense, or participating in it in any form, is an offense.
(c) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 8 (eight) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand) and MVR 750,000 (seven hundred and fifty thousand).
(d) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (b) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 3 (three) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 200,000 (two hundred thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand).

**Commission of a Crime by a Legal Person**

27. 
(a) If an act defined as a crime in this part of this law is committed by a legal person, or if it is committed with the consent or knowledge of a member of the board of directors of that legal person or a person responsible for the management of that person, the person who committed the act and the legal person to which he belongs are committing a crime.
(b) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (a) of this Article is a fine of an amount between MVR 5,000,000 (five million) and MVR 100,000,000 (one hundred million).
(c) If it is proven that a legal person has committed an act defined as a crime in this chapter, the court shall order the dissolution of that legal person.
(d) If a legal person is ordered to be dissolved under paragraph (c) of this Article, the Registrar of Associations or the Registrar of Companies shall act accordingly. And no other legal person shall be registered in the name used by that legal person for the next 5 (five) years.

**Part Two**
**Acquiring and Obtaining Illicit Wealth**

**The Crime of Acquiring and Obtaining Illicit Wealth**

28. 
(a) It is an offense for a member of an organized criminal group or any person belonging to such a group to acquire and obtain illicit wealth.
(b) For the purpose of paragraph (a) of this Article, "illicit wealth" refers to the acquisition or obtaining of property in circumstances where the following conditions are met.
    (1) The acquisition or obtaining of property in an amount disproportionate to the income being received or that was being received; and
    (2) Failure to prove that the property was acquired or obtained in a manner permitted by law.
(c) For the purpose of sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph (b) of this Article, if it cannot be proven in accordance with Article 31 of this law that a particular property was acquired in a manner permitted by law, it shall be considered illicitly acquired wealth for the purpose of this Article.
(d) For the purpose of paragraph (b) of this Article, "property" includes property, money, and other benefits.
(e) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (a) of this Article is a fine of an amount between MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand) and MVR 1,000,000 (one hundred million).

**Submitting to Determine Illicitly Acquired Wealth**

29. 
(a) If the Prosecutor General has reasonable grounds to believe that the following matters exist in relation to a particular person, the Prosecutor General has the discretion to submit a case to the High Court to determine that the wealth acquired by that person is illicitly acquired wealth.
    (1) That the person is associated with an organized criminal group; and
    (2) That it has not been stated in the manner provided for in Article 31(a) of this law that the wealth he has acquired is wealth acquired in a manner permitted by law.
(b) The Prosecutor General shall submit a submission to the court under paragraph (a) of this Article to determine that the wealth obtained by a member of an organized criminal group or a person associated with such a group is disproportionate to the wealth acquired by that person through legal means, based on a submission made by the police with the evidence required to prove it.
(c) A submission to the court under paragraph (a) of this Article shall be made with a notice of the matter to the person accused in that case.

**Court's Determination of Illicitly Acquired Wealth**

30. 
(a) If the court is satisfied, based on clear and convincing evidence, that the total wealth obtained by a member of an organized criminal group or a person associated with such a group is disproportionate to the wealth acquired by that person through legal means, the court may determine that the wealth acquired by that person is illicitly acquired wealth.
(b) The court shall determine under paragraph (a) of this Article that the wealth acquired by a person is illicitly acquired wealth, after it is satisfied, based on sufficient evidence, that a member of an organized criminal group or a person associated with such a group has committed an organized crime as stated in Article 4 of this law, and after assessing the illicit wealth of that person in accordance with Article 31 of this law.
(c) If the court determines under paragraph (a) of this Article that the wealth acquired by a person is illicitly acquired wealth, it shall state the amount assessed as illicit wealth under Article 31 of this law.
(d) In determining under paragraph (a) of this Article that the wealth acquired by a person is illicitly acquired wealth, the court shall consider all property, income, expenses, and benefits included in the wealth of such a person as illicitly acquired wealth, unless it is proven in the manner provided for in Article 31(a) of this law.
(e) If the court is inclined to believe that determining that the wealth acquired by a person is illicitly acquired wealth under paragraph (a) of this Article is not a matter that should be done to maintain the public interest, it shall not make such a determination.

**Assessing Illicit Wealth**

31. 
(a) For the purpose of determining under Article 30 of this law that the wealth acquired by a person is illicitly acquired wealth, the amount to be determined as illicit wealth shall be an amount equal to the difference between the amount stated in sub-paragraph (1) of this paragraph and the amount stated in sub-paragraph (2) of this paragraph, assessed as follows.
    (1) The amount shown by the evidence submitted under Article 29 of this law as the total wealth of a person (which includes all property, income, and benefits acquired by that person, whether before or after the assessment of his wealth under this Article, and all property, income, and benefits received from the transfer of ownership of any such property, income, or benefit by way of gift, sale, or otherwise); and
    (2) The amount of wealth that can be proven to have been acquired in a manner permitted by law from among the wealth of that person during the period for which the wealth is being assessed under this Article.
(b) For the purpose of this Article, the value of a property or benefit shall be the following amount.
    (1) If the wealth has been transferred to another person, the higher of its value when he acquired it and its value when its ownership was transferred to another person; or
    (2) If the wealth has not been transferred to another person, the higher of its value when he acquired it and its value when the submission was made to the court under Article 29 of this law.

**Confiscation of Money Determined as Illicitly Acquired Wealth**

32. If a person is convicted of an offense stated in Article 28 of this law, the court shall order the confiscation by the state of the money determined under Article 30 of this law as the money he illicitly acquired.

**Chapter Four**
**Regarding Dangerous Crimes**

**Dangerous Crime Committed Using a Sharp Object or a Dangerous Weapon**

33. 
(a) It is an offense for any person to commit any of the following acts using a sharp object or a dangerous weapon, or for an organized criminal group to commit any of the following acts without the use of a sharp object or a dangerous weapon.
    (1) Killing a person;
    (2) Committing a dangerous assault on a person;
    (3) Inflicting serious bodily harm on a person;
    (4) Kidnapping a person;
    (5) Intimidating a person.
(b) For the purpose of paragraph (a)(1) of this Article, "killing a person" refers to intentionally killing a person.
(c) For the purpose of paragraph (a)(2) of this Article, "committing a dangerous assault on a person" refers to committing an assault using a sharp object or a dangerous weapon in a manner that results in the loss of a person's organ or part of an organ.
(d) For the purpose of paragraph (a)(3) of this Article, "inflicting serious bodily harm on a person" refers to inflicting serious bodily harm on a person in a manner other than an assault committed using a sharp object or a dangerous weapon in a manner that results in the loss of a person's organ or part of an organ.
(e) For the purpose of paragraph (a)(4) of this Article, "kidnapping a person" refers to taking a person to a certain place without their consent, by use of force or intimidation, and restraining their liberty in such a way that they cannot leave that place.
(f) For the purpose of paragraph (a)(5) of this Article, "intimidating a person" refers to giving a warning of the following things.
    (1) A warning that a person or another person with whom he has a close relationship will be killed; or
    (2) A warning that a person or another person with whom he has a close relationship will be subjected to serious bodily harm; or
    (3) A warning that serious damage will be caused to the property of a person or another person with whom he has a close relationship.
(g) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (a)(1) of this Article is the death penalty.
(h) Notwithstanding paragraph (g) of this Article, if, at any stage before the execution of the death penalty, the heirs of the deceased person receive blood money from the convicted person or his agnatic relatives and grant a pardon, or grant a pardon without receiving blood money, the following ta'zir punishments shall be imposed on him without retribution.
    (1) Life imprisonment; and
    (2) A fine of an amount between MVR 3,000,000 (three million) and MVR 10,000,000 (ten million).
(i) If a person dies as a result of the commission of an act stated in paragraph (a)(2) of this Article, the punishment for that person is life imprisonment and a fine of an amount between MVR 1,000,000 (one million) and MVR 5,000,000 (five million). In other cases, the punishment for the person who commits the offense is imprisonment for a term of 20 (twenty) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 2,000,000 (two million) and MVR 7,000,000 (seven million).
(j) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (a)(3) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 20 (twenty) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 2,000,000 (two million) and MVR 7,000,000 (seven million).
(k) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (a)(4) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 15 (fifteen) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 1,000,000 (one million) and MVR 3,000,000 (three million).
(l) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (a)(5) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 10 (ten) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 750,000 (seven hundred and fifty thousand) and MVR 1,000,000 (one million).
(m) Attempting to commit the offense stated in paragraph (a)(1) of this Article, or aiding in the commission of that offense, or participating in it in any form, is an offense.
(n) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (m) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 18 (eighteen) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 2,000,000 (two million) and MVR 5,000,000 (five million).
(o) Attempting to commit the offense stated in paragraph (a)(2) of this Article, or aiding in the commission of that offense, or participating in it in any form, is an offense.
(p) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (o) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 15 (fifteen) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 1,000,000 (one million) and MVR 3,000,000 (three million).
(q) Attempting to commit the offense stated in paragraph (a)(3) of this Article, or aiding in the commission of that offense, or participating in it in any form, is an offense.
(r) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (q) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 12 (twelve) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 800,000 (eight hundred thousand) and MVR 2,000,000 (two million).
(s) Attempting to commit the offense stated in paragraph (a)(4) of this Article, or aiding in the commission of that offense, or participating in it in any form, is an offense.
(t) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (s) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 10 (ten) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 750,000 (seven hundred and fifty thousand) and MVR 1,000,000 (one million).
(u) Attempting to commit the offense stated in paragraph (a)(5) of this Article, or aiding in the commission of that offense, or participating in it in any form, is an offense.
(v) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (u) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 8 (eight) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand) and MVR 750,000 (seven hundred and fifty thousand).

**The Crime of Importing and Manufacturing Weapons of War and Other Dangerous Weapons**

34. 
(a) It is an offense for any person to import a weapon of war into the Maldives or to manufacture one in the Maldives.
(b) It is an offense for any person to import a dangerous weapon other than a weapon of war into the Maldives or to manufacture one in the Maldives.
(c) The weapons of war and dangerous weapons stated in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Article do not include a weapon of war or a dangerous weapon brought into the Maldives for the purpose of the state.
(d) For the purpose of paragraph (c) of this Article, "for the purpose of the state" refers to the bringing of weapons of war and dangerous weapons into the Maldives for the use of the security services with the permission of the ministry responsible for defense matters under the relevant law.
(e) Attempting to commit the offense stated in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Article, or aiding in the commission of that offense, or participating in it in any form, is an offense.
(f) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 20 (twenty) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 2,000,000 (two million) and MVR 7,000,000 (seven million).
(g) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (b) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 15 (fifteen) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 1,000,000 (one million) and MVR 3,000,000 (three million).
(h) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (e) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 10 (ten) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 750,000 (seven hundred and fifty thousand) and MVR 1,000,000 (one million).

**The Crime of Carrying a Sharp Object or a Dangerous Weapon**

35. 
(a) It is an offense to carry a dangerous weapon or a sharp object in a public place without a valid reason.
(b) It is an offense to keep or carry a dangerous weapon or a sharp object in a place other than a public place without a valid reason.
(c) For the purpose of this Article, a "valid reason" is considered to be the carrying of the object for one of the following purposes.
    (1) For the purpose of daily life; or
    (2) For the purpose of work.
(d) In an investigation conducted upon the discovery of a dangerous weapon or a sharp object in any place, the owner of the place where such an object was found or the person in charge of that place at the time shall be held responsible only if he or they knowingly did one of the following.
    (1) The object being an object obtained or received by the owner of the place where it was found or the person in charge of that place at the time;
    (2) The owner of the place where the object was found or the person in charge of that place having the discretion to dispose of the object and keeping it in his possession for an unreasonable period.
(e) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 5 (five) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 300,000 (three hundred thousand) and MVR 600,000 (six hundred thousand).
(f) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (b) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 5 (five) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 300,000 (three hundred thousand) and MVR 600,000 (six hundred thousand).

**The Crime of Importing and Manufacturing Flick Knives and Butterfly Knives**

36. 
(a) It is an offense to import flick knives and butterfly knives into the Maldives or to manufacture any such item in the Maldives in contravention of Article 40 of this law.
(b) Attempting to commit the offense stated in paragraph (a) of this Article, or aiding in the commission of that offense, or participating in it in any form, is an offense.
(c) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 5 (five) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 300,000 (three hundred thousand) and MVR 600,000 (six hundred thousand).
(d) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (b) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 3 (three) years and a fine of an amount between MVR 200,000 (two hundred thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand).

**Prohibition of Selling Knives to Children**

37. 
(a) It is prohibited for any person to sell any type of knife to a child.
(b) The punishment for a person who commits the offense stated in paragraph (a) of this Article is a fine of an amount between MVR 20,000 (twenty thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand).

**Sharp Objects**

38. In this chapter, "sharp object" refers to the following items.
(a) Any type of knife;
(b) Swords and daggers;
(c) Razor blades, cutters, and cutter blades;
(d) Billhooks, machetes, axes, and cleavers;
(e) Sharpened or pointed iron, rods, wood, and other such items;
(f) Any other sharp object that can cause injury to a person.

**Dangerous Weapon**

39. In this chapter, "dangerous weapon" refers to weapons of war, any object that, if used as a weapon, could cause damage to a person's property or pose a serious danger to life or body, explosives, flammable materials, and any other object that can be used as a weapon. This includes taser guns and stun guns and any other device that causes a temporary state of incapacity in a person by sending a shock to their body, devices made to explode at a certain time, devices designed to explode in a certain way, poisons, poison gases, biological or chemical substances that can cause death, dangerous acids, and radioactive materials.

**Requirement to Obtain a Permit for Importing Flick Knives and Butterfly Knives**

40. 
(a) Flick knives and butterfly knives can be imported into the Maldives only with a permit from the ministry responsible for internal affairs.
(b) The procedures for applying for and issuing the permit stated in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be stated in a regulation made by the ministry responsible for internal affairs under this law.
(c) For the purpose of paragraph (a) of this Article, "flick knife" refers to any knife whose blade can be folded into the handle of the knife or slid into the handle, and whose blade emerges with the help of a spring when a button or a part on the handle of the knife is pressed or pulled.
(d) For the purpose of paragraph (a) of this Article, "butterfly knife" refers to any knife that has two handles, and these two handles rotate on a hinge at the base of the blade of the knife, and the blade of the knife is concealed within the space between these two handles.

**Chapter Five**
**Powers to Prevent Dangerous and Organized Crimes**

**Part One**
**Investigative Powers and Procedures**

**The Scope of General and Special Powers Granted to the Police to Prevent Crime and Conduct Investigations**

41. In addition to the powers granted to the police under Law No. 12/2016 (Criminal Procedure Act) and other laws relating to general criminal procedure in conducting criminal investigations and other criminal procedures, and the general and special powers granted to the police under Law No. 34/2020 (Maldives Police Service Act) and other special laws defining criminal offenses, the police have the discretion to use the powers and techniques specified in this chapter, within the scope defined in this law, in preventing and investigating the crimes stated in this law.

**Searching Persons**

42. 
(a) If the police have reasonable grounds to believe that one of the following circumstances exists in relation to a person suspected of having committed, committing, or attempting to commit a crime among the crimes stated in Articles 4, 33, and 34 of this law, and if that person is in a public place, the police have the discretion to stop and search that person without a court order.
    (1) Belief that he has in his possession a sharp object or a dangerous weapon that is believed to be used to commit a violent act;
    (2) Belief that he has in his possession any other weapon or instrument used to commit a crime;
    (3) Belief that he has in his possession property obtained by committing a crime;
    (4) Belief that he has in his possession something that could be used as evidence of a crime stated in Chapter Three of this law.
(b) The police have the power to do the things stated in Article 38(f) of Law No. 12/2016 (Criminal Procedure Act) in relation to a person being searched under paragraph (a) of this Article.
(c) If a person stated in paragraph (a) of this Article is in a private place, that place can be entered to search that person without the consent of the owner of that place only with a court order.
(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (c) of this Article, this Article does not prevent the search of a person arrested under the power granted to the police to enter a private place to arrest a person under Article 43 of this law.

**Power of Arrest**

43. 
(a) If there are reasonable grounds to believe that a person suspected of attempting to commit a crime among the crimes stated in Articles 4, 33, and 34 of this law will commit the crime of which he is suspected if immediate action is not taken against him, the police have the power to arrest that person without a court order.
(b) A person shall be arrested under paragraph (a) of this Article with the permission of an officer of the rank of Sub-Inspector of Police or a higher rank.
(c) In arresting a person under paragraph (a) of this Article, and after the arrest, the police shall follow the procedures stated in Article 40(b) and (f), Article 42, Article 43, Article 44, and Article 45 of Law No. 12/2016 (Criminal Procedure Act).
(d) If there is sufficient evidence to believe that a person for whom the police have the power to arrest without a court order under paragraph (a) of this Article is in a private place, the police have the power to enter that place to arrest that person without a court order, and to remain in that place for a reasonable period of time to do so.
(e) If the private place stated in paragraph (d) of this Article is an uninhabited, abandoned place, and there is sufficient evidence to believe that a person stated in paragraph (a) of this Article is in that place, the police have the power to enter that place to arrest that person without a court order, and to remain in that place for a reasonable period of time to do so.
(f) In entering a private place under this Article, the police shall follow the procedures stated in Article 30(d), (f), (g), (h), and (i) of Law No. 12/2016 (Criminal Procedure Act).

**Searching a Private Place After Arresting a Person**

44. 
(a) In a situation where a person is arrested in a private place on suspicion of a crime among the crimes stated in Articles 4, 18, 19, 33, and 34 of this law, if there is a reasonable reason to believe that there is evidence related to the crimes stated in those articles in that place, that place may be searched in accordance with this Article to find that thing, for a period of time that is reasonable to do so.
(b) A private place can be searched under paragraph (a) of this Article only if there is a reasonable reason to believe that the following circumstances exist, and with the permission of an officer of the rank of Executive Officer of Police or a higher rank, obtained by the police officer who arrested the person suspected of the crime.
    (1) There is a reasonable reason to believe that there is evidence in that place that is sought in connection with the crime; and
    (2) There is a reasonable reason to believe that the evidence is something that may be useful to be submitted to the court as evidence to prove the crime; and
    (3) There is a reasonable reason to believe that if the place is not searched at that time, the evidence related to the crime may be concealed, destroyed, lost, or altered.
(c) A search under this Article shall be conducted after appointing an officer who will be responsible for the search, under the supervision of that officer.
(d) If the owner of a private place is present at the place when it is being searched under this Article, the place shall be searched in his presence. If the owner of the place is not present at the place, the place shall be searched in the presence of another person who can protect his interests.
(e) A private place can be searched under this Article only for a period of time that is reasonable to find such evidence as is believed to be in that place, as stated in paragraph (a) of this Article. And such a search shall not exceed 6 (six) hours.
(f) If it is requested to search a private place under this Article for longer than the time stated in paragraph (e) of this Article, it shall be done with a court order.
(g) The police officers searching a private place under this Article may do the following.
    (1) If there is something in that place that could be used as evidence, and if the officer believes that there is an opportunity to conceal, destroy, or alter that thing, to seize that thing;
    (2) To take photos and/or videos of the place and the relevant things in it.
(h) Notwithstanding paragraph (g) of this Article, the police do not have the power to seize items under diplomatic immunity, items under legal privilege, and other items that are privileged under a law, or to take photos and/or videos of them.
(i) An inventory of the property seized under paragraph (g) of this Article shall be prepared by the searching officer. This shall be done in the presence of another police officer and the owner of the place or, in the absence of the owner of the place, a person who can protect the interests of the owner. And a copy of the inventory shall be given by the police officer to the owner of the place or, in his absence, to a person who can protect the interests of the owner.
(j) The police officer in charge of searching a private place under this Article shall record the information related to the search in writing. In doing so, the record shall state the time of entry into the place being searched, the people present at the place, the officer responsible for the search, the searching officers, the type of evidence sought, and the details of each item taken from the place being searched, in a way that the place from which it was taken is known.
(k) The information recorded under paragraph (j) of this Article shall include the name and position of the Executive Officer who authorized the search under this Article, the time the permission was given, and the scope of the search authorized by that officer. And the record shall be signed by the searching officers in addition to the officer who authorized it.
(l) The information stated in paragraph (j) of this Article shall be recorded in writing before the search of the place is concluded and the place is left.

**Searching Places**

45. 
(a) Except in the situation stated in Article 44 of this law, in other situations, a private place can be entered to be searched without the consent of the owner of that place only with a court order.
(b) Unless otherwise stated in this law, in searching a private place, it shall be done in accordance with the provisions of Law No. 12/2016 (Criminal Procedure Act).

**Seizing and Searching Vessels**

46. 
(a) If it is believed that a crime stated in Articles 4, 18, 19, 33, and 34 of this law has been committed or is being committed on or using a sea vessel arriving in, departing from, or operating in the Maldives, the police have the power to do the following in relation to such a vessel.
    (1) To stop the vessel, board it, and search it;
    (2) To search the items on the vessel;
    (3) To order a person on the vessel to disclose their identity;
    (4) To question a person on the vessel;
    (5) To search a person on the vessel;
    (6) To take a sample from a person on the vessel;
    (7) To find any item that can be used as evidence on the vessel;
    (8) To securely keep the evidence found on the vessel;
    (9) To arrest a person on the vessel on suspicion of a crime;
    (10) To seize the vessel and prevent it from traveling further.
(b) In exercising the powers granted to police officers under this Article, all possible measures shall be taken to ensure the following.
    (1) To ensure the safety and security of all persons on board the vessel;
    (2) Not to commit acts that undermine their dignity or to treat them in an inhumane manner;
    (3) If a person on board the vessel is a citizen of a foreign country, that action has been taken against that person in accordance with the principle of non-refoulement;
    (4) To ensure the human rights of the persons on board the vessel;
    (5) That there is no threat of damage to the vessel and the property on it; and
    (6) If the vessel is a foreign vessel, that it does not adversely affect the legal interests of the flag state to which the vessel belongs, or any other country that has an interest in the vessel.
(c) Any measure stated in this Article shall be taken or enforced in relation to a vessel with priority given to doing so in a manner that does not affect the following.
    (1) The power of coastal states to exercise jurisdiction under the international law of the sea, and the rights and obligations granted to such states; or
    (2) The power of the flag state to exercise jurisdiction in administrative, technical, or social matters relating to the vessel.
(d) The police have the discretion to use the powers stated in this Article in relation to vessels in the following situations.
    (1) The vessel is registered in the Maldives or is flying the Maldivian flag, indicating that it is registered in the Maldives;
    (2) Even if a particular vessel is flying the flag of a foreign country or is not flying any flag, the vessel is in fact a Maldivian vessel; or
    (3) The vessel is a vessel that does not belong to any country or is a vessel that is believed not to belong to any country.
(e) Instead of the police directly using the power granted under paragraph (a) of this Article, if the following are met, the police may request a relevant authority of another country to use its power in relation to a particular vessel in accordance with the laws of that country.
    (1) The powers are the same as or similar to the law enforcement powers stated in this Article; and
    (2) The foreign authority requested to use the power is given the discretion to use those powers under the relevant law of that country.

**Procedure for Using Power in Relation to Foreign Vessels**

47. Even though it is stated that the police will use power in relation to sea vessels under this law, if such a vessel is outside the territory of the Maldives, and if that vessel is not a Maldivian vessel, or if it cannot be confirmed that the vessel is a Maldivian vessel, the matters stated in this chapter shall be enforced in relation to that vessel by an authority authorized by the international law of the sea. And in doing so, it shall be done in accordance with the principles and procedures established in that treaty.

**Part Two**
**Special Operations**

**Controlled Delivery**

48. 
(a) A controlled delivery of a prohibited item imported into the Maldives, or transported from one place to another within the territory of the Maldives, or transited through the Maldives, or exported from the Maldives for the purpose of committing a crime under this law, may be carried out in the manner provided for in this Article with a permit from the Commissioner of Police or a police officer of the rank of Chief Inspector of Police or higher designated by him, in order to achieve the following.
    (1) To identify who imported the item into the Maldives;
    (2) To identify who is involved in importing the item into the Maldives;
    (3) To identify who imported or is transporting the item from the Maldives for the purpose of trafficking in it;
    (4) To identify who is involved in trafficking or illegally using the imported or transported item.
(b) For the purpose of this Article, "making a controlled delivery" refers to allowing an illegal item in the situation stated in paragraph (a) of this Article to be delivered to its destination by authorized police officers, through an operation monitored and supervised by the police, for the purpose stated in that paragraph. This includes doing the following.
    (1) Allowing the item to enter the Maldives; and/or
    (2) Allowing the item to be transported from one place to another in the Maldives; and/ or
    (3) Allowing the item to be transited in the Maldives; and/ or
    (4) Allowing the item to be exported from the Maldives; and/or
    (5) Other authorized activities conducted under this law to allow the item to be delivered to its destination.
(c) A police officer participating in a controlled delivery authorized in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Article shall not be guilty of a crime under this law for any act done in accordance with the law.
(d) A separate permit shall be obtained for each controlled delivery. A request for a permit to make a controlled delivery may be submitted to the Commissioner of Police or a person designated by him in a manner permitted by the regulations made under this law. However, a separate permit given for each controlled delivery shall be a permit that is recorded in writing.
(e) With every application for a permit under this Article, information necessary for granting the permit shall be submitted. And if it is a controlled delivery for which a permit has been previously applied, that shall be stated.
(f) A decision on whether to grant a permit for an application submitted under paragraph (e) of this Article shall be made after ensuring the following.
    (1) It is believed, based on sufficient evidence, that a crime stated in this law has been committed, is being committed, or is about to be committed;
    (2) Considering the nature and type of the criminal act stated in sub-paragraph (1) of this paragraph, it is a matter that requires the authorization of a controlled delivery;
    (3) The acts that the authorized officer must do among the acts authorized to be done to conduct a controlled delivery, which would be illegal without that permit, are acts that are essential for conducting that delivery;
    (4) The controlled delivery is conducted by doing all possible things to ensure that the item used in the operation will be under the control of the police officer who participated in the operation at the end of the operation;
    (5) The controlled delivery is not conducted in a way that encourages the persons involved in the operation to commit a crime that they were not planning to commit;
    (6) The controlled delivery is conducted in a manner that does not endanger the safety and health of any person involved in the operation, or that does not cause serious injury to any such person.
(g) A permit given under paragraph (a) of this Article shall state the controlled delivery operation for which the permit is given, the authorized officer, and the things that are permitted to be done in the operation.
(h) All permits and documents related to an operation such as the one stated in paragraph (a) of this Article, and the activity logs of the operation shall be recorded in writing or through audio or video.
(i) Notwithstanding Article 89(a) of Law No. 8/2011 (Maldives Customs Act), matters relating to a controlled delivery conducted in connection with a crime stated in this law shall be carried out in the manner provided for in this Article. And, for the purpose of this law, the procedure stated in Article 89 of Law No. 8/2011 (Maldives Customs Act) is maintained to that extent.
(j) Notwithstanding anything stated otherwise in this Article, if a controlled delivery operation is conducted in connection with drug trafficking and trade, such a controlled delivery operation shall be conducted under Law No. 17/2011 (Narcotics Act), in accordance with the procedures stated in that law.

**Undercover Operations**

49. 
(a) In the work done to stop organized criminal groups and the crimes they commit and to find the people who do them, a police officer, with the permission of the Commissioner of Police or a police officer designated by him, may, in an unknown identity, associate with an organized criminal group or members of such a group and offer to obtain or buy illegal items from them.
(b) A police officer participating in an undercover operation authorized in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Article shall not be guilty of a crime under this law for any act done in accordance with the law.
(c) A separate permit shall be obtained for each undercover operation. A request for a permit to conduct such an operation may be submitted to the Commissioner of Police or a person designated by him in a manner permitted by the regulations made under this law. However, a separate permit given for each undercover operation shall be a permit that is recorded in writing.
(d) With every application for a permit under this Article, information necessary for granting the permit shall be submitted.
(e) A decision on whether to grant a permit for an application submitted under paragraph (c) of this Article shall be made after ensuring the following.
    (1) It is believed, based on sufficient evidence, that a crime stated in this law has been committed, is being committed, or is about to be committed;
    (2) Considering the nature and type of the criminal act stated in sub-paragraph (1) of this paragraph, it is a matter that requires the authorization of an undercover operation;
    (3) The acts that the authorized officer must do among the acts authorized to be done to conduct an undercover operation, which would be illegal without that permit, are acts that are essential for conducting that undercover operation;
    (4) The operation is conducted by doing all possible things to ensure that the item used in the operation will be under the control of the police officer who participated in the operation at the end of the operation;
    (5) The operation is not conducted in a way that encourages the persons involved in the operation to commit a crime that they were not planning to commit;
    (6) The operation is conducted in a manner that does not endanger the safety and health of any person involved in the operation, or that does not cause serious injury to any such person.
(f) A permit given under paragraph (a) of this Article shall state the undercover operation for which the permit is given, the authorized officer, and the things that are permitted to be done in the operation.
(g) All permits and documents related to an operation such as the one stated in paragraph (a) of this Article, and the activity logs of the operation shall be recorded in writing or through audio or video.
(h) Notwithstanding Article 89(a) of Law No. 8/2011 (Maldives Customs Act), matters relating to an undercover operation conducted in connection with a crime stated in this law shall be carried out in the manner provided for in this Article. And, for the purpose of this law, the procedure stated in Article 89 of Law No. 8/2011 (Maldives Customs Act) is maintained to that extent.

**Evidence Obtained from Controlled Deliveries and Undercover Operations**

50. 
(a) A document, photo, audio, or video obtained by the police from an activity related to a controlled delivery conducted under Article 48 of this law or from an undercover operation conducted under Article 49 of this law is something that can be used as evidence to prove a crime defined as a crime in this law.
(b) The items that can be used as evidence, as stated in paragraph (a) of this Article, include items obtained in the following ways.
    (1) Evidence obtained by the police in another country in accordance with the law of that country;
    (2) Evidence obtained by an authority of another country in accordance with the law of that country and provided to the police.

**Reporting Information of Special Operations**

51. 
(a) A report consisting of the following information related to controlled deliveries conducted under Article 48 of this law or undercover operations conducted under Article 49 of this law shall be submitted by the police to the Parliamentary Committee on Security Services every year.
    (1) The number of applications for permits for controlled deliveries and the number of permits granted; and
    (2) The number of cases in which charges have been brought using information or evidence obtained through controlled delivery; and
    (3) The number of applications for permits for undercover operations and the number of permits granted; and
    (4) The number of cases in which charges have been brought using information or evidence obtained through undercover operations.
(b) Information under paragraph (a) of this Article shall be disclosed in a manner that does not reveal operational information related to the investigations to which a controlled delivery or an undercover operation is related, and the techniques and sources used.

**Part Three**
**Seizure and Confiscation of Property and Money by the State**

**Stopping and Seizing Transactions with Money and Property**

52. 
(a) In connection with an investigation of a crime stated in Chapter Three of this law, the Prosecutor General may apply to the court for an order to stop transactions with or to seize money or property connected to any of those crimes.
(b) In a case submitted to the court under paragraph (a) of this Article, if the court is satisfied that the following matters exist, the court shall issue an order to stop transactions with or to seize that property or properties.
    (1) An investigation of a crime stated in Chapter Three of this law has been initiated or the trial of any of those crimes has begun and that trial has not concluded; and
    (2) There are reasonable grounds to believe that the money or property is something of the following nature:
        (i) The money or property is property used to commit a crime or has been used to commit a crime;
        (ii) The money or property is property or money obtained by committing a crime. This includes money and property that have been mixed with property obtained by committing a crime.
(c) If a court order is issued under paragraph (b) of this Article, the money or property specified in that order, or part of it, shall not be transferred, changed, sold, or destroyed, except in a manner or in a circumstance specified in the order. Or the money or property shall not be dealt with in any other way.
(d) The court has the power to review or terminate an order issued by the court under paragraph (b) of this Article, upon the request of the Prosecutor General.
(e) If a court order is issued under paragraph (b) of this Article in connection with the initiation of an investigation of a crime stated in Chapter Three of this law, the court shall terminate the order if the trial of the case related to that crime has not begun in court within a period that the court deems reasonable, and in any case within 3 (three) months.
(f) If a court order is issued under paragraph (b) of this Article at the trial stage of a crime stated in Chapter Three of this law, that court order shall remain in effect until the conclusion of that trial.
(g) The money or property seized or whose transactions are stopped under paragraph (b) of this Article shall be maintained and dealt with in the manner specified in the court order, under the supervision of the relevant state authority.
(h) The court shall issue an order to seize property or money or to stop transactions with it under paragraph (b) of this Article, and such an order shall be enforced, in a manner that does not prejudice the rights of third parties acting in good faith.
(i) The person accused of the crime or any person who has an interest in the money or property that has been seized or whose transactions have been stopped may apply to the court to terminate an order issued under paragraph (b) of this Article.
(j) The court shall decide on a submission made in accordance with paragraph (i) of this Article to terminate an order issued under paragraph (b) of this Article within a maximum of 30 (thirty) days.

**Confiscation of Property by the State**

53. 
(a) If a person is convicted of a crime stated in Chapter Three of this law, a court order shall be issued to confiscate the following money or property by the state.
    (1) Money or property used to commit the crime;
    (2) Property obtained by committing a crime or money and property obtained from property obtained by committing a crime;
    (3) Money or property that was attempted to be obtained or was obtained by committing a crime;
    (4) Property used to commit the crime;
    (5) Money or property mixed with property obtained by committing a crime;
    (6) Property obtained, directly or indirectly, from property obtained by committing a crime. This includes income, profits, and other benefits derived from that thing.
(b) A court order under paragraph (a) of this Article shall be issued in relation to the owner of the property or money stated in that paragraph. However, if the owner proves that he received the property or money after giving a reasonable price for it in money or by providing a service for that price, or in any other legally permissible way, and that he did not know that the property or money was illegal property or money, such a court order shall not be issued against the owner of the property or money.
(c) A court order issued under this Article shall state at least the following.
    (1) The person to whom the order is addressed;
    (2) Full information of the property or money to be confiscated by the state. Including full details of such money or property and where they are located;
    (3) The purpose for which the order is issued;
    (4) In a situation where the owner of the property or money to be confiscated by the state is not known, if that property or money is under the control of a particular person, the information of that person;
    (5) In connection with which crime defined by this law the property or money is sought to be confiscated by the state;
    (6) The period for which the order will remain in effect;
    (7) The authority that will take charge of and maintain the property or money to be confiscated by the state after it is confiscated;
    (8) The name and signature of the judge who issued the permit and the seal of the court.
(d) Unless otherwise stated in a court order issued under paragraph (a) of this Article, that order shall remain in effect until its term expires, or until the order is revoked, or until all procedures for the confiscation of that property or money by the state are completed, or until the court decides on a matter submitted under paragraph (j) of this Article to terminate that order.
(e) If the money or property confiscated by the state in accordance with an order issued under paragraph (a) of this Article can be used as evidence in a criminal offense defined by another law, and if it is believed that there is an opportunity to conceal or destroy that property or money, it shall be deemed that the order gives the power to confiscate that property or money.
(f) When issuing an order under paragraph (a) of this Article, the judge shall give a reasonable period to complete the confiscation of the property or money, taking into account the property or money to be confiscated and the reasons for its confiscation.
(g) Even if the person accused is convicted in a trial of a crime stated in Chapter Three of this law, if the money or property stated in paragraph (a) of this Article has been sold, destroyed, or its value has decreased, or if the property cannot be traced when the court issues the order stated in that paragraph, the court shall order the accused person to pay a sum of money equal to the amount that the court deems to be the value of the property. And the amount of the fine so imposed can be recovered as a civil debt owed to the state.
(h) The court shall issue an order under paragraph (a) of this Article and enforce and maintain that order in a manner that does not prejudice the rights of a third party acting in good faith.
(i) The person accused of the crime or any person who has an interest in the property or money ordered to be confiscated by the state may apply to the court to terminate an order issued under paragraph (a) of this Article.
(j) The court shall decide on a submission made in accordance with paragraph (i) of this Article to terminate an order issued under paragraph (a) of this Article within a maximum of 30 (thirty) days.
(k) Unless otherwise stated in this law, the money or property confiscated by the state shall be kept under the supervision of the authority that requested the court order for the confiscation of that property.
(l) The money or property stated in paragraph (k) of this Article shall be kept at its full value in accordance with the law, so that the rights of third parties who seek to acquire rights in good faith are granted to them.
(m) The manner in which money or property confiscated by the state under this law will be dealt with shall be stated in a regulation made under this law.

**Part Four**
**Rights and Trial**

**Consulting with a Legal Counsel**

54. 
(a) A person arrested on suspicion of a crime under this law and against whom further action is taken under this law has the right to seek and obtain the assistance of a legal counsel in the manner provided for in Law No. 12/2016 (Criminal Procedure Act).
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, if the person arrested on suspicion of a crime is a person who has been ordered to be kept in detention after being brought before a judge, and if the crime of which he is suspected is a crime stated in Articles 4, 18, 19, 33, and 34 of this law, and if there are reasonable grounds to believe that the following circumstances exist, the opportunity for the person arrested under this law to meet and communicate privately with his legal counsel may be withheld for 48 (forty-eight) hours from the time of his arrest.
    (1) There are reasonable grounds to believe that if the person in custody is given the opportunity to meet and communicate privately with his legal counsel, a person being sought by the police on suspicion of having committed a crime stated in Chapter Three of this law will be warned;
    (2) There are reasonable grounds to believe that if the person in custody is given the opportunity to meet and communicate privately with his legal counsel, evidence of a crime stated in Chapter Three of this law will be destroyed or influenced;
    (3) There are reasonable grounds to believe that if the person in custody is given the opportunity to meet and communicate privately with his legal counsel, an act of a crime stated in Chapter Three of this law will be committed;
    (4) There are reasonable grounds to believe that if the person in custody is given the opportunity to meet and communicate privately with his legal counsel, a person will be subjected to physical injury; or
    (5) There are reasonable grounds to believe that if the person in custody is given the opportunity to meet and communicate privately with his legal counsel, the recovery of property obtained by committing a crime stated in Chapter Three of this law will be hindered.
(c) Even if the opportunity for the person suspected of the crime and his legal counsel to meet and communicate privately is withheld under this Article, the conversation and communication between the person suspected of the crime and his legal counsel is a legally privileged communication.
(d) The opportunity for the arrested person and his legal counsel to meet and communicate privately can be withheld under paragraph (b) of this Article only under a written permit from an officer of the rank of Sub-Inspector of Police or a higher rank.
(e) Even during the period when the opportunity for the arrested person and his legal counsel to meet and communicate privately is withheld under paragraph (b) of this Article, if it is found that the reason for withholding that opportunity has ceased to exist, that opportunity shall be restored.
(f) If the opportunity for the arrested person to meet and communicate privately with his legal counsel is withheld, the reason for this shall be given in writing to that person and his counsel.
(g) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this Article, during the period when the opportunity for the arrested person and his legal counsel to meet and communicate privately is withheld under this Article, if any stage of obtaining information or questioning in the investigation regarding the suspected crime is carried out, he shall be given the opportunity to meet privately with his counsel.
(h) The regulations made under this law shall state the procedures to be followed in withholding the right of the suspected person to meet privately with his legal counsel under this Article.

**Remaining Silent to Questions Asked During Investigation**

55. 
(a) If a person charged with a crime among the crimes stated in Articles 4, 18, 19, 33, and 34 of this law, during the investigation stage of that crime, presents in the trial of that charge, for his defense, a fact to which he did not respond when questioned to ascertain the circumstances of the crime or to identify the person who committed the crime, if the judge has reasonable grounds to believe that the fact was a fact to which he could have responded in the circumstances that existed when he was questioned during the investigation, and if the prosecution submits evidence to the court that he remained silent without responding when given the opportunity to respond to that fact during the investigation, the judge may consider an inference that arises against him from his so remaining silent.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, if the person charged was in a place where it is legally permissible to take a person suspected of a crime for questioning during the investigation when he was questioned, and if he was not given the legal warning that he should have been given before being questioned, or if he was not given the opportunity to meet with a legal counsel, the matters stated in that article shall not apply to him.
(c) Evidence that the person charged remained silent during the investigation stage in relation to a fact stated in paragraph (a) of this Article may be submitted in the trial of that crime before or after the submission of evidence to prove that that fact existed as such.
(d) For the purpose of paragraph (a) of this Article, questioning the person suspected of the crime refers to an officer entrusted with the responsibility of investigating the crime in the law enforcement agency investigating that crime, after giving the legal warning that should be given to the person suspected of the crime, questioning him about the crime and the matters noted in the investigation of that crime.

**Remaining Silent Regarding a Particular Object, Substance, or Mark**

56. 
(a) If a particular object, substance, or mark on the body, clothing, or footwear of a person arrested on suspicion of a crime among the crimes stated in Articles 4, 18, 19, 33, and 34 of this law, or a particular object, substance, or mark in his possession or at the place where he was arrested, is believed by the police officer who arrested him or investigated the crime, based on reasonable grounds, to be something that indicates his participation in the act of that crime, and if, after informing the person suspected of the crime of such belief, he remains silent when questioned about that object, substance, or mark, if the evidence of those matters is submitted to the court in the trial of the charge of that crime by the prosecution, the judge may consider an inference that arises against him from his so remaining silent.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, if the police officer who questioned the person suspected of the crime did not clarify, in a manner that he could understand, what the consequence of his not responding to those questions would be, before questioning him, the matters stated in paragraph (a) of this Article shall not apply to that person.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, if the person suspected of the crime was in a place where it is legally permissible to take for questioning during the investigation when he was questioned, and if he was not given the legal warning that he should have been given before being questioned, or if he was not given the opportunity to meet with a legal counsel, the matters stated in paragraph (a) of this Article shall not apply to that person.

**Remaining Silent Regarding Being in a Place**

57. 
(a) If a person is arrested on suspicion of a crime among the crimes stated in Articles 4, 18, 19, 33, and 34 of this law at the scene of the crime at the time the crime was committed, and if the police officer who arrested him or investigated the crime believes, based on reasonable grounds, that his being at that place is something that indicates his participation in the act of that crime, and if, after informing the person suspected of the crime of such belief, he remains silent when questioned about the reason for his being at that place, if the evidence of those matters is submitted to the court in the trial of the charge of that crime by the prosecution, the judge may consider an inference that arises against him from his so remaining silent.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, if the police officer who questioned the person suspected of the crime did not clarify, in a manner that he could understand, what the consequence of his not responding to those questions would be, before questioning him, the matters stated in paragraph (a) of this Article shall not apply to that person.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, if the person suspected of the crime was in a place where it is legally permissible to take for questioning during the investigation when he was questioned, and if he was not given the legal warning that he should have been given before being questioned, or if he was not given the opportunity to meet with a legal counsel, the matters stated in paragraph (a) of this Article shall not apply to that person.

**Deciding on Detention**

58. 
(a) When a person detained on suspicion of a crime stated in this law is brought before a judge to decide on his detention, the judge shall determine whether he has been detained in accordance with legal principles. And in making such a determination, the judge shall consider whether he has been arrested and detained with sufficient evidence to believe that he committed the crime of which he is suspected or participated in the act of that crime, and whether the police have acted in accordance with the procedures that they are required to follow.
(b) If the judge determines under paragraph (a) of this Article that a person detained on suspicion of a crime has been detained in accordance with legal principles, and if the crime of which that person is suspected is a crime stated in Articles 4, 18, 19, 33, and 34 of this law, if there is sufficient evidence to suspect that he committed the crime of which he is suspected or participated in the act of that crime, the judge shall order him to be kept in detention.
(c) If the judge determines under paragraph (a) of this Article that a person detained on suspicion of a crime has been detained in accordance with legal principles, and if the crime of which that person is suspected is a crime other than a crime stated in Articles 4, 18, 19, 33, and 34 of this law, if there is sufficient evidence to suspect that he committed the crime of which he is suspected or participated in the act of that crime, and if the following circumstances exist, the judge shall order him to be kept in detention.
    (1) The crime is a violent crime, and if he is released from detention, there is a possibility of further harm to the victim of the crime or harm to the society;
    (2) If he is released from detention, there are circumstances that make it highly probable that he will conceal evidence related to the crime or attempt to influence a person who is to give evidence in such a case;
    (3) If he is released from detention, there are circumstances that make it highly probable that he will flee.
(d) After deciding on the detention of a person suspected of a crime under this Article, the court shall follow the procedures stated in Law No. 12/2016 (Criminal Procedure Act) that the court is required to follow.

**Time Limits for Investigation and Prosecution**

59. 
(a) If a person suspected of a crime stated in Articles 4, 18, 19, 33, and 34 of this law is a person detained under this law, the investigation of that case shall be completed and submitted to the Prosecutor General's Office within 45 (forty-five) days from the date of his first appearance before a judge to determine whether he has been detained in accordance with legal principles or from the date the case is submitted to the court requesting to keep him in detention under Article 60 of this law. And the Prosecutor General shall decide on whether to bring charges against him within 15 (fifteen) days from the date the case is submitted to the Prosecutor General's Office, and if charges are to be brought, charges shall be brought within that period.
(b) If a person suspected of a crime stated in Articles 4, 18, 19, 33, and 34 of this law is a person who has been released after his first appearance before a judge, the investigation of that case shall be completed and submitted to the Prosecutor General's Office within 75 (seventy-five) days from the date of his first appearance in court. And the Prosecutor General shall decide on whether to bring charges against him within 15 (fifteen) days from the date the case is submitted to the Prosecutor General's Office, and if charges are to be brought, the Prosecutor General shall bring charges within that period.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Article, if the crime of which the person suspected of the crime is suspected is the crime of intentionally killing a person, the investigation of that case shall be completed and submitted to the Prosecutor General's Office within 180 (one hundred and eighty) days from the date of his first appearance in court. And the Prosecutor General shall decide on whether to bring charges against him within 30 (thirty) days from the date the case is submitted to the Prosecutor General's Office, and if charges are to be brought, charges shall be brought within that period.
(d) Notwithstanding the time limits established in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this Article, efforts shall be made to complete the investigation of such cases and send them to the Prosecutor General as soon as possible, even before the expiration of that period. And the Prosecutor General shall endeavor to bring charges in that case as soon as possible, even before the expiration of the period established for the Prosecutor General to bring charges in a case.
(e) Notwithstanding what is stated in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Article, if, due to the crime of which a person stated in those paragraphs is suspected and the nature of the case, it is not a case in which the investigation of the case can be completed within the established period, a request may be made to the Prosecutor General to extend the period to complete the investigation of that case, stating the reasons. However, the period extended by the Prosecutor General in this way shall not exceed 45 (forty-five) days under paragraph (a) of this Article. And the period extended under paragraph (b) of this Article shall not exceed 75 (seventy-five) days.
(f) A request to extend the period under paragraph (e) of this Article shall be made to the Prosecutor General by the law enforcement agency. And if the Prosecutor General extends the period in this way, it shall be stated in writing.
(g) Even in the case of an extension of the investigation period under paragraph (e) of this Article, the Prosecutor General shall bring charges against that person within a maximum of 15 (fifteen) days from the date the period expires. And when bringing charges in this way, if the Prosecutor General has extended the investigation period, a document stating the reason for extending that period shall be submitted to the court with the charge of that case. And if a charge is submitted to the court after the period stated in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Article, the reason for this shall be submitted to the court in writing.
(h) If the investigation of the case is not completed even during the period extended under paragraph (e) of this Article, and if the investigation is not completed due to a matter beyond the control of the police, a request may be made to the Prosecutor General to extend that period one more time. And taking into account the reason why the investigation of that case has not been completed, the Prosecutor General may extend that period for a period not exceeding 15 (fifteen) days.
(i) Even in the case of an extension of the investigation period under paragraph (h) of this Article, the time limits and procedures stated in paragraph (g) of this Article regarding the bringing of charges shall apply.
(j) If the investigation of a person stated in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Article is not completed and charges are not brought against him within the periods stated in paragraphs (h) and (i) of this Article, charges shall not be brought against him except in the situation stated in paragraph (k) of this Article. And that person shall be released from detention.
(k) Even if the investigation of a person stated in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Article is not completed and charges are not brought against him within the periods stated in paragraphs (h) and (i) of this Article, if new evidence is obtained in the case of which that person is suspected, this Article does not prevent the bringing of charges against the person suspected of the crime after re-investigating that case.
(l) If charges are brought against a person under paragraph (k) of this Article following the receipt of new evidence, in that situation too, such a charge can be brought only if 8 (eight) years have not passed since the time the crime was committed for crimes that fall within felonies, or 3 (three) years have not passed since the time the crime was committed for crimes that fall within misdemeanors, in accordance with Article 61 of Law No. 9/2014 (Maldives Penal Code).
(m) When a person is released from detention under paragraph (j) of this Article, if there is a situation that requires that person to be prohibited from leaving under Article 75 of Law No. 12/2016 (Criminal Procedure Act), this Article does not prevent a request to be made to the court for that purpose.
(n) In the case of bringing charges after re-investigation under paragraph (k) of this Article, the time limits and procedures stated in the paragraphs from (a) to (i) of this Article regarding the investigation of the case of which that person is suspected and the bringing of charges shall apply.

**Not Being Released on Bail or Otherwise**

60. 
(a) A person detained on suspicion of a crime stated in Articles 4, 18, 19, 33, and 34 of this law does not have the right to be released on bail.
(b) A person detained on suspicion of a crime for which it is stated in paragraph (a) of this Article that he cannot be released on bail shall not be released otherwise than on bail.
(c) The principle stated in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Article shall not apply to children.

**No Pardon and No Leniency in Punishment**

61. 
(a) The crimes stated in Article 18 and Article 33(a)(1) and (2) of this law are crimes for which the punishment cannot be pardoned or reduced in any way.
(b) For the purpose of paragraph (a) of this Article, reducing the punishment refers to shortening the term of the punishment, or reducing the amount of the fine to be paid, or reducing the type of punishment.
(c) A plea agreement shall not be made with a person suspected of a crime stated in Article 18 and Article 33(a)(1) and (2) of this law.
(d) In a situation where the law permits a plea agreement in connection with a crime other than the crimes stated in paragraph (c) of this Article, if the punishment of a person has been reduced under such an agreement, the punishment of that person shall not be further reduced.

**Evidence Admissible in Court as Hearsay Evidence**

62. 
(a) In a trial of a crime stated in Articles 4, 18, 19, 33, and 34 of this law, if a person who could give evidence is unable to give evidence due to fear, or if such a person, after starting to give evidence in court, is unable to complete that evidence due to fear, the statement given by that person to the investigation of that case is evidence that can be admitted in court as hearsay evidence.
(b) For the purpose of this Article, "fear" refers to the witness's fear of a danger that he may face if he gives evidence in that case, including the witness's feeling of fear that the witness or a member of his family or another person with whom he has a close relationship will be killed, or that any of them will be injured, or that the property of any of them will be damaged.

**Chapter Six**
**Determining an Organized Criminal Group**

**Applying to the Court to Determine an Organized Criminal Group**

63. 
(a) If the following matters are met in relation to a particular association, the Prosecutor General may apply to the High Court to determine that that association is an organized criminal group.
    (1) There are reasonable grounds to believe that the association is an organized criminal group connected to serious criminal offenses; and
    (2) There are reasonable grounds to believe that the actions of that association pose a threat to the safety and security or peace and order of the society; and
    (3) That association is an association that is active at the time the submission is made.
(b) The Prosecutor General shall decide to submit a submission to the court under paragraph (a) of this Article to determine that a particular association is an organized criminal group, based on a submission made to the Prosecutor General by the Commissioner of Police with the police intelligence report and other relevant evidence.
(c) A submission made to the court by the Prosecutor General under paragraph (a) of this Article shall meet all of the following.
    (1) The submission is a written submission; and
    (2) The submission states the following;
        (i) Which association is being submitted for determination as an organized criminal group under that submission; and
        (ii) The nature and type of that association and the characteristics specific to that association; and
        (iii) The reasons for requesting such a determination and the matters on which those reasons are based; and
        (iv) That there is an opportunity to respond to that submission.
    (3) Evidence to prove the matters stated in the numbers from (i) to (iii) of sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph (c) of this Article; and
    (4) In the situation stated in Article 68(b) of this law, an affidavit as stated in that article;
    (5) If a similar submission has been previously made to the court regarding that association, the information of that submission and the information of the decision made by the court regarding that submission.
(d) For the purpose of this Article, an "association" includes a legal person registered and operating under a relevant law, and any association that operates or is active without such registration.
(e) For the purpose of sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (c)(2) of this Article, to state which particular association it is, a common name attributed to that association or, if a particular association is a legal person, the registered name of that person may be stated. Or the characteristics that identify that association may be stated in any other way.
(f) If a submission made under paragraph (a) of this Article wishes to rely on intelligence information in the hearing of that case, an affidavit of a police intelligence officer submitted in accordance with Article 68 of this law shall be submitted to the court with that submission.
(g) If a submission made under paragraph (a) of this Article identifies a particular person or persons as a member of the association to which the submission relates, information substantiating that shall be included in the affidavit of the police officer submitted in accordance with Article 68 of this law.
(h) A notice of a submission made to the court under paragraph (a) of this Article shall be given by the court to the person to whom the submission relates. And with that notice, a copy of the submission and a copy of the evidence and other information submitted with that submission shall be provided to that person.

**Responding to the Submission**

64. 
(a) The person to whom a submission made to the court under Article 63 of this law relates has the right to make a submission in response to that submission.
(b) A submission made in response under this Article shall meet the following.
    (1) If an objection is made to a particular matter presented in the Prosecutor General's submission, stating that matter, and the reason for so objecting; and
    (2) Evidence submitted to refute the matters included in the Prosecutor General's submission; and
    (3) Any other evidence that is sought to be relied upon in the hearing of that case held in relation to a submission.
(c) A submission made in response under paragraph (a) of this Article shall be submitted to the court by the person to whom the submission relates within 14 (fourteen) days of receiving the notice of the Prosecutor General's submission.
(d) For the purpose of sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph (b) of this Article, even if the responding party in a submission made in response under paragraph (a) of this Article objects to the entire submission of the Prosecutor General, the objection to all individual matters included in that submission, and the reason for so objecting, shall be stated.

**Hearing to Decide on the Submission**

65. 
(a) The court shall decide on a submission made to the court under Article 63 of this law after giving the following persons or the persons representing them the opportunity to make oral statements in the hearing held to decide on that submission.
    (1) The Prosecutor General;
    (2) The association to which the submission relates;
    (3) Every person stated in that submission to be a member or a former member of the association to which the submission relates;
    (4) A person whom the court has accepted as a person who has a direct interest in the submission.
(b) If the court is satisfied that giving the opportunity to present oral evidence in the hearing of the case is essential to make a fair decision in that case, that opportunity may be given to the persons stated in paragraph (a) of this Article.
(c) If the court is satisfied that giving the opportunity to cross-examine a person who gives oral evidence in the hearing of the case, or a person who has given an affidavit, is essential to make a fair decision in that case, the right to cross-examine any such person may be given to the person against whom that evidence was presented.
(d) A request to the court by any party to the case for the opportunity to present evidence or to cross-examine under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Article shall be made with a statement of the detailed reason for requesting to present that evidence, or the detailed reason for requesting to cross-examine a witness or a person who has given an affidavit.
(e) The procedures stated in Law No. 11/2022 (Evidence Act) shall not apply to the presentation of oral evidence and the cross-examination of a witness or a person who has given an affidavit under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Article.

**Court's Decision on the Submission**

66. 
(a) The court shall decide on a submission made to the court under Article 63 of this law after giving the parties the opportunity to present matters in accordance with Article 65 of this law, and after considering all the evidence that the court has permitted to be admitted and all the matters included in the case.
(b) In making a decision under paragraph (a) of this Article, the court shall determine that a particular association is an organized criminal group if the following matters are proven to the court on a civil standard.
    (1) The association to which the submission relates is an organized criminal group; and
    (2) The persons belonging to that association communicate to plan, prepare for, facilitate, aid in, or participate in the commission of serious criminal offenses; and
    (3) If action is not taken under this law, that association is a group that will pose a threat to the safety and security or peace and order of the society.
(c) In making a decision under paragraph (b) of this Article, the court shall consider the following matters.
    (1) Information that the association is connected to serious criminal offenses;
    (2) Whether a person belonging to that association or a person connected to that association has been convicted of a criminal offense;
    (3) Whether the current members or former members of that association are, directly or indirectly, connected to serious criminal offenses, and whether such persons have been convicted of a relevant crime;
    (4) Information that persons belonging to that association communicate or gather to plan, prepare for, facilitate, aid in, or participate in the commission of serious criminal offenses;
    (5) Other relevant information and evidence.
(d) In making a decision under this Article, the court may make a decision even if the responding party has not made a submission in response under Article 64 of this law.
(e) A decision made by the court under this Article may be appealed by any party to the case to the Supreme Court within 21 (twenty-one) days.

**Determination as an Organized Criminal Group and its Consequence**

67. 
(a) In relation to a submission made to the court under Article 63 of this law, if the court, in making a decision in accordance with Article 66 of this law, decides to determine that a particular association is an organized criminal group, and upon informing the Prosecutor General of this, the Prosecutor General shall publish an announcement in the Government Gazette stating that that association has been determined to be an organized criminal group under this chapter.
(b) The determination that a particular association is an organized criminal group does not impose criminal liability on the association specified in that determination, but a measure or more than one measure among the measures stated in Chapter Eight of this law may be taken against that association or a person belonging to that association.
(c) Any measure to be taken under this law in relation to such an association following the court's determination that a particular association is an organized criminal group shall be taken only after the publication of the Prosecutor General's announcement under paragraph (a) of this Article, stating that that association has been determined to be an organized criminal group under this chapter.
(d) After a particular association is determined to be an organized criminal group under Article 66 of this law, unless the court revokes or renews that determination, that determination shall remain in effect for a period of 2 (two) years.
(e) After a particular association is determined to be an organized criminal group under Article 66 of this law, a change in the name of that association shall not have any effect on that determination. And even if that association is subsequently dissolved or if the persons belonging to that association transfer to another association, that determination shall not be changed as a result of that.

**Intelligence Information and Police Affidavit**

68. 
(a) If the evidence included in a submission made under Article 63 of this law includes the statement of a secret witness or information provided by an operative active in a secret operation, and if there are reasonable grounds to believe that the disclosure of that information would reveal the identity of that secret witness or the operative active in the secret operation and adversely affect an ongoing investigation, or if there are reasonable grounds to believe that it would endanger the safety of another person, the Commissioner of Police may decide to classify that information as classified intelligence information.
(b) If the Commissioner of Police decides under paragraph (a) of this Article to classify particular information as classified intelligence, a submission shall be made to the High Court through the Prosecutor General to determine that that information is classified intelligence.
(c) A submission made to the court under paragraph (b) of this Article shall be made without giving notice to the person to whom the submission stated in Article 63 of this law relates. And a decision on that submission shall be made in a secret hearing. In that hearing, evidence shall be presented to prove the matters stated in paragraph (a) of this Article on a civil standard. And the court shall decide on that matter after considering the evidence presented to the court, if it is believed that the matters stated in paragraph (a) of this Article could occur.
(d) If the court determines in a case submitted under paragraph (b) of this Article that the information included in it is classified intelligence information, or even if it decides that it cannot be so determined, that information is not information that can be provided to the person to whom the submission relates or the person representing him. And to verify a statement submitted to the court or information given by a secret witness or a secret operative included in an affidavit, no such person shall be summoned to court.
(e) Notwithstanding paragraph (d) of this Article, if it is intended to rely on the statement of a secret witness or information provided by an operative active in a secret operation in a hearing held to decide on a submission made under Article 63 of this law, an affidavit of the police officer designated to communicate with that secret witness or operative shall be included with the submission made to the court under Article 63 of this law.
(f) The affidavit stated in paragraph (e) of this Article shall state the following matters and information without including information that would reveal the identity of that secret witness or the operative active in the secret operation.
    (1) Information given by the secret witness or the operative active in a secret operation and other matters that support that information;
    (2) If the secret witness has a criminal record, that (including any charge that has been filed);
    (3) If any disciplinary case has been filed or decided regarding the officer active in a secret operation, the details of that case;
    (4) If any leniency has been offered to the secret witness for agreeing to give secret evidence, the details of that leniency;
    (5) The reasons for believing that the matters included in the statement of the secret witness or the information given by the secret operative is credible information.
(g) If the court gives permission under Article 65(c) of this law to cross-examine the police officer who gave the affidavit in a hearing held to decide on a submission made under Article 63 of this law, that officer shall appear in court for that purpose.

**Amending and Revoking the Determination of an Organized Criminal Group**

69. 
(a) The persons to whom the determination that a particular association is an organized criminal group made under Article 66 of this law relates, and if the Prosecutor General believes that the determination needs to be amended due to a change in the circumstances in which that determination was made, a submission may be made to the court to amend that determination.
(b) A submission made by the Prosecutor General under paragraph (a) of this Article shall meet the following.
    (1) The reasons for stating that the circumstances in which the determination was made have changed; and
    (2) Relevant evidence.
(c) The other persons stated in Article 65(a) of this law have the right to participate in a hearing held to decide on a submission made under paragraph (a) of this Article.
(d) The association or any person belonging to that association has the right to apply to the court to revoke a determination made under Article 66 of this law that a particular association is an organized criminal group.
(e) A submission made under paragraph (a) of this Article shall meet the following.
    (1) The reason for believing that the determination was made contrary to the matters stated in this law; and
    (2) Relevant evidence.
(f) The other persons stated in Article 65(a) of this law have the right to participate in a hearing held to decide on a submission made under paragraph (d) of this Article.
(g) If the court decides to amend or revoke a determination made by the court under Article 66 of this law that a particular association is an organized criminal group in relation to a case submitted to the court under paragraph (a) or (d) of this Article, and upon the court informing the Prosecutor General of this, the Prosecutor General shall publish an announcement in the Government Gazette stating that the determination that that association is an organized criminal group has been amended or revoked.

**Chapter Seven**
**Special Measures to Remove Children from the Environment of Crime**

**Order to Stop Participation in or to Protect from the Activities of Organized Groups**

70. 
(a) A court order may be issued against a child in the following circumstances.
    (1) The child is a child who is believed by the court on a civil standard to have participated in, aided, or encouraged a violent act committed by an organized criminal group or in the drug trade; and
    (2) The court believes that the order needs to be issued for one or both of the following reasons;
        (i) To stop the child from participating in, aiding, or encouraging violent acts committed by an organized criminal group or in the drug trade; or
        (ii) To protect the child from violent acts committed by an organized criminal group or from the drug trade.
(b) An order stated in paragraph (a) of this Article can be issued only against a child of an age at which criminal liability can be imposed.
(c) An order issued under this Article may prohibit the child to whom the order relates from doing a specific thing stated in the order. Or it may require the doing of a specific thing stated in the order.

**Applying for a Court Order**

71. 
(a) An application to the court for an order stated in Article 70 of this law shall be made by the Prosecutor General at the request of the Commissioner of Police.
(b) An application for an order under this Article shall be made to the High Court. And when applying for an order, an order may be requested with or without giving notice to the child to whom the order relates.
(c) If an order is requested under this Article without giving notice, the child to whom the order relates shall be given the opportunity to speak regarding that submission.

**Matters that Can be Stipulated in a Court Order**

72. 
(a) The things that can be prohibited for the child to whom the order relates to do in that order include the following.
    (1) Prohibiting going to a certain place;
    (2) Prohibiting going to a certain place with certain people or being in that place with those people;
    (3) Wearing clothing in a public place that displays the insignia of an organized criminal group or symbolizes such a thing;
    (4) Using the internet or a means of communication to encourage the commission of violent acts or to commit such acts or to engage in the drug trade.
(b) The things that the child to whom the order relates can be required to do in that order include the following.
    (1) Providing the information of the address where the child lives to a designated person and informing if that address changes;
    (2) Ordering to be present at a certain place at certain times on certain days;
    (3) Ordering to be present at a certain place at certain times on certain days and to complete certain things in that place in the custody of a designated person;
    (4) Ordering to be present at a certain place at certain times on certain days and to participate in certain activities or a certain thing.
(c) The things required under paragraph (b) of this Article shall be things that encourage the child to refrain from the acts from which he is sought to be kept away, and that facilitate the child's reintegration into society in a positive manner. And the time that the child is required to spend in a place designated for any of those things shall not be longer than 8 (eight) hours.
(d) The things prohibited under paragraph (a) of this Article shall be things that are determined in a way that does not hinder the child from attending an educational institution or going to work.
(e) For the purpose of this Article, the meaning of "place" includes an area.

**Other Matters Relating to the Order**

73. 
(a) An order issued under Article 70 of this law shall remain in effect for a maximum period of 2 (two) years. And the doing of a thing required to be done or the not doing of a thing prohibited to be done under that order shall be required to be for a period not exceeding that period.
(b) During the term of an order issued under Article 70 of this law, a hearing shall be held at intervals determined by the court to review the order to see the extent to which the child to whom the order relates is complying with the order. And if a thing prohibited to be done or required to be done under that order is determined for a period of 1 (one) year or a longer period, such a hearing shall be held 30 (thirty) days before the expiration of that period.

**Applying for an Interim Order**

74. 
(a) Before making a decision on a submission made to the court for an order under Article 71 of this law, if it is important to issue such an order at that very moment, the party making that submission has the discretion to apply for an interim order until the court makes a decision on that submission.
(b) An interim order requested under this Article may include the things prohibited in Article 72(a) of this law to be determined in the order requested under Article 71 of this law. However, such an interim order shall not require the doing of a specific thing.

**Chapter Eight**
**Special Procedures for Monitoring and Control**

**Part One**
**General Provisions Relating to the Monitoring and Control Order**

**Monitoring and Control Order**

75. 
(a) A monitoring and control order may be issued by the High Court in the manner provided for in this chapter against a person over the age of 18 (eighteen) years who belongs to an association determined to be an organized criminal group under Chapter Six of this law.
(b) In the following circumstances, a monitoring and control order may be issued by the High Court against a person over the age of 18 (eighteen) years who is suspected of a crime stated in Articles 33 and 34 of this law.
    (1) The person is a person who is believed by the court on a civil standard to belong to or have a connection with an organized criminal group; or
    (2) The person is a person who is believed by the court on a civil standard to have participated in, aided, or encouraged a crime committed by an organized criminal group; and
    (3) It is believed by the court on a civil standard that if action is not taken against him in the manner provided for in this chapter, he may cause harm to another person or persons.
(c) A monitoring and control order issued under this Article is an order issued to prohibit the person to whom the order relates from doing certain things, or to require the doing of certain things, in order to achieve the purpose stated in sub-paragraph (3) of paragraph (b) of this Article.

**Applying for an Order**

76. 
(a) An application to the court for a monitoring and control order against a person can be made only by the Prosecutor General at the request of the Commissioner of Police.
(b) A submission made to the court for an order under this Article shall include the following information.
    (1) Information identifying the suspected person;
    (2) The nature and type of the suspected crime;
    (3) Evidence related to the suspicion;
    (4) The criminal record of the suspected person;
    (5) The measures to be taken under the order;
    (6) Other details related to the submission.
(c) A submission made under paragraph (a) of this Article may be made with or without giving notice of the matter to the person to whom the order sought under the submission relates.

**Court's Decision on a Submission for a Monitoring and Control Order**

77. 
(a) The court shall issue a monitoring and control order against a person in relation to a submission made to the court under Article 75(b) of this law after ensuring the following.
    (1) It is believed on a civil standard that the person to whom the order relates is a person in the situation stated in sub-paragraph (1) or (2) of Article 75(b) of this law; and
    (2) It is believed by the court on a civil standard that if the order is not made against the person to whom the order relates, there may be a threat to the safety and security of the society from that person or that there is a possibility of it; and
    (3) Determining whether the measures proposed to be taken against him are necessary and appropriate measures, considering the purpose and importance of those measures.
(b) In determining whether a measure or measures proposed to be taken against a person under a monitoring and control order are appropriate measures, the court shall consider the following.
    (1) Whether a particular measure is a measure that is essential to be taken, considering the nature and type of the acts of which he is suspected; and
    (2) Whether the purpose sought to be achieved by taking that measure can be achieved; and
    (3) Whether that measure is an appropriate measure that is proportionate to the acts he has committed and/or is believed to be likely to commit.
(c) After considering the matters stated in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Article in relation to a submission made to the court under Article 76 of this law, the court may act in one of the following ways in relation to that submission.
    (1) If the matters stated in paragraph (a) of this Article are met in that submission, to issue the order as requested;
    (2) Even if the matters stated in paragraph (a) of this Article are met in that submission, if there are inappropriate measures among the requested measures, to issue the order by removing those measures;
    (3) If the matters stated in paragraph (a) of this Article are not met in that submission, to determine that the order cannot be issued.
(d) Within 24 (twenty-four) hours of the court receiving a submission made under Article 76 of this law, a hearing shall be held, and the court shall determine to issue the monitoring and control order stated in that submission or that the order cannot be issued.
(e) In making a decision under paragraph (d) of this Article, if the submission is a submission made with notice of the matter to the person to whom the order sought under the submission relates, that person shall be given the opportunity to express his views on the matter in that hearing.

**The Scope of Things that Can be Required or Prohibited by an Order**

78. 
(a) The measures that can be taken under a monitoring and control order may include the following.
    (1) Determining the ways in which the person to whom the order relates can communicate with other people;
    (2) Determining the places he can go to, the places he can enter, and the places he can use;
    (3) Determining a certain type of thing that he cannot use;
    (4) Determining the places and ways he can travel;
    (5) Determining the type of transactions that he cannot conduct.
(b) The things required to be done under a monitoring and control order may include ordering him to be present at a certain place at a certain time for a certain period, and to cooperate with or provide information to a designated person.
(c) Notwithstanding what is stated in paragraph (b) of this Article, the things required to be done under a monitoring and control order shall not include the following.
    (1) Giving a statement that could be used against him in court;
    (2) Giving information that is prohibited by law to be disclosed to another person.

**Matters to be Included in an Order**

79. A monitoring and control order shall include at least the following information.
(a) Information identifying the person to whom the order relates;
(b) The purpose and reason for issuing the order;
(c) The type of the suspected crime and the law under which the crime is defined;
(d) The measure or measures to be taken under the order;
(e) The date on which the order will begin to be enforced and the date on which the order will end;
(f) The name and signature of the judge who made the decision;
(g) The seal of the court.

**The Term of a Monitoring and Control Order**

80. 
(a) A monitoring and control order shall state the date on which the order will begin to be enforced and the date on which the order will end.
(b) A monitoring and control order can be enforced for a maximum period of 1 (one) year from the date the order begins to be enforced.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this Article, if the Commissioner of Police believes that the threat to the society from a person suspected of a crime stated in this law does not cease even after the period stated in that paragraph, a request may be made to the court through the Prosecutor General to extend the term of a monitoring and control order for a period not exceeding 1 (one) more year.
(d) In relation to a submission made under paragraph (c) of this Article, the court shall make a decision after considering the matters stated in sub-paragraphs (2) and (3) of Article 81(c) of this law.

**Requesting a Review of a Monitoring and Control Order**

81. 
(a) Any monitoring and control order issued under this law may be submitted to the High Court by the person to whom the order relates for a review of that order within a maximum of 90 (ninety) days of its issuance.
(b) Upon the court receiving a submission such as the one stated in paragraph (a) of this Article, a hearing shall be held to review that order.
(c) In a hearing to review a monitoring and control order, the court shall ensure the following.
    (1) To see whether the conditions stated in this law are met in the order; and
    (2) To see whether the situation stated in Article 75(b) of this law continues to exist; and
    (3) To determine whether the measure or measures determined in the order are necessary measures for the safety and security of the society at that time, and to see whether the necessity of that measure or measures continues to exist.
(d) In a hearing to review a monitoring and control order, the court has only the following powers.
    (1) To revoke the monitoring and control order;
    (2) To revoke a measure or measures in the order;
    (3) To amend a measure or measures in the order;
    (4) Taking into account the amendment made under sub-paragraphs (2) and (3) of this paragraph, to amend the date on which the order will end, for the purpose of giving leniency.
(e) Except for the situations in sub-paragraphs (1) and (4) of paragraph (d) of this Article, in the other situations stated in that paragraph, the monitoring and control order shall continue until the date stated in the order.
(f) During the term of a monitoring and control order, an application to the court for a review of that order can be made only once. An order can be reviewed a second time only in relation to an order that is in effect during the extended period, if the term of an order has been extended by the court on a submission made under Article 80(c) of this law.

**Appealing a Monitoring and Control Order**

82. 
(a) Any monitoring and control order issued under this law is an order that can be appealed by the person to whom the order relates.
(b) Even if a monitoring and control order is appealed under paragraph (a) of this Article, unless the court decides otherwise, that order shall remain in effect during the appeal period.

**Continuing to Review a Monitoring and Control Order**

83. 
(a) As long as a monitoring and control order remains in effect, the Commissioner of Police and the Prosecutor General shall regularly check whether the situation in which that order was issued continues to exist.
(b) When checking whether the situation in which a monitoring and control order was issued continues to exist, as stated in paragraph (a) of this Article, if it is believed that that situation has come to an end, that order shall be terminated.
(c) When checking whether the situation in which a monitoring and control order was issued continues to exist, as stated in paragraph (a) of this Article, if that situation has changed for the better, it shall be decided to reduce the measures included in that order as provided for in this law.

**Terminating an Order Before its Term Expires**

84. 
(a) If the Prosecutor General, after reviewing a monitoring and control order under Article 83 of this law, decides to terminate that order on the advice of the Commissioner of Police, that order may be determined to be terminated after informing the court of this.
(b) A monitoring and control order can be decided to be terminated under this Article only if the court, when issuing the order, stated that the order would remain in effect until the date stated in the order, as well as in the event that the Prosecutor General determines to terminate the order.
(c) A decision to grant leniency to the measures included in an order under paragraph (c) of Article 83 of this law after reviewing a monitoring and control order under Article 83 of this law can be made only if it is so stated in the order. And such leniency shall be the suspension of a measure or some of the measures included in the order.
(d) If it is decided to grant leniency to the measures included in an order under paragraph (c) of Article 83 of this law after reviewing a monitoring and control order under Article 83 of this law, the court shall be informed of this.

**Issuing More than One Order Against One Person**

85. This law does not prevent the enforcement of a monitoring and control order issued under this chapter against one person more than once. However, each time, a separate application shall be made to the court for such an order to see whether the matters stated in Article 75 of this law are met in relation to that person.

**Part Two**
**Monitoring and Control Measures**

**General Principle of Taking Measures**

86. 
(a) The measures stated from Article 87 to Article 91 of this law are measures that can be determined in a monitoring and control order issued against a person under Part One of this chapter.
(b) The court has the power to take a measure or measures among the measures stated from Article 87 to Article 91 of this law. And even though those measures are measures that can be taken together through one such order, for the purpose of this law, those measures are in themselves separate measures.

**Measures Relating to Places of Entry and Exit**

87. 
(a) A measure among the following measures may be taken in relation to the place where the person to whom the order relates lives or in relation to places with which he has a connection.
    (1) To provide information of the people living in the place where he lives and to inform of any changes to that information;
    (2) To prohibit anyone other than the people living in the place where he lives from coming to that place;
    (3) To prohibit him from leaving a place where he lives or a certain area to which that place belongs at certain times;
    (4) To prohibit him from going to a certain place for a certain period.
(b) A measure under this Article shall be taken in a manner that does not prejudice the rights of third parties.

**Measures Relating to Travel**

88. A measure among the following measures may be taken against the person to whom the order relates in relation to travel.
(a) To prohibit entering or leaving a certain area of the Maldives;
(b) To prohibit landing on or leaving a certain island of the Maldives;
(c) To prohibit leaving the Maldives except with written permission from a person designated by the court.

**Measures Relating to Transactions**

89. 
(a) A measure among the following measures may be taken to control transactions with the property of the suspected person.
    (1) To prohibit conducting transactions of a certain amount of money for a certain period;
    (2) To prohibit conducting transactions of a certain type of business for a certain period.
(b) A measure under this Article shall be taken in a manner that does not prejudice the rights of third parties. And any of those measures shall be taken only if that measure is directly related to the crime of which he is suspected and is an essential measure to prevent the commission or further commission of that crime.

**Ordering to Report to a Police Station**

90. The suspected person may be ordered to report to a police station at a certain time, on certain days, and in a certain manner as determined. When so reporting, the person shall comply with the orders given by the police within the scope of Article 78(c) of this law.

**Monitoring Whereabouts**

91. 
(a) In order to ascertain the whereabouts and the places visited by the suspected person, it may be determined under a monitoring and control measure to install an electronic device on his body.
(b) The device required for taking the measure stated in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be specified in the control order issued by the court.
(c) The person to whom the order relates shall give his full cooperation to install the device stated in paragraph (a) of this Article on his body. And the person to whom the order relates shall maintain that device as instructed by the installing party.
(d) The order may also require the person to give permission to a person designated by the court to enter the place where he lives for matters relating to the maintenance or repair of the devices installed under this Article, in a manner determined by the court.

**Procedure for Listening to Private Communications**

92. A person's private communication shall not be ordered to be listened to under a monitoring and control order. If it becomes necessary to listen to such a private communication, an application shall be made to the court for that purpose, in accordance with Article 74 of Law No. 12/2016 (Criminal Procedure Act), if the matters stated in that article are met.

**Part Three**
**Enforcement of the Monitoring and Control Order**

**Enforcement of the Order**

93. Unless otherwise determined in a monitoring and control order, that order shall be enforced by the police.

**Entering and Searching a Residence**

94. In enforcing a monitoring and control order, if it is believed that the person to whom the order relates is not complying with the order, the place where that person lives and that person may be entered and searched with a court order.

**Surveillance**

95. 
(a) The places he goes and the place where he lives may be monitored from outside to see whether the person to whom the order relates is acting in accordance with the manner determined in a monitoring and control order.
(b) For the purpose of paragraph (a) of this Article, photos of the outside of the place where the person to whom the order relates lives and the places he goes may be taken.

**Violation of the Order**

96. 
(a) It is an offense for a person to whom a monitoring and control order relates to violate any measure of the monitoring and control order without a reasonable cause.
(b) The punishment for the offense stated in paragraph (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term not exceeding 18 (eighteen) months.

**Chapter Nine**
**Miscellaneous**

**Making Regulations**

97. 
(a) Unless expressly stated otherwise in this law, the regulations that need to be made under this law shall be made and implemented by the following parties.
    (1) The Maldives Police Service in matters relating to investigation;
    (2) The Prosecutor General in matters relating to applying for the child protection order stated in Chapter Seven of this law and the monitoring and control order stated in Article 75 of this law, and in matters relating to prosecution;
    (3) The courts in matters relating to trial.
(b) Within 3 (three) months of the commencement of this law, all regulations that need to be made under this law shall be made and published in the Government Gazette.

**Commencement of the Law**

98. This law shall come into force on the day that completes 3 (three) months from the date this law is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette.

**Repealed Laws**

99. With the commencement of this law, Law No. 17/2010 (Law on Prohibition of Intimidation and Possession of Dangerous Weapons and Sharp Objects) and Law No. 18/2010 (Law on Prohibition of Gang Crimes) are repealed.

**Definitions**

100. Unless the context in which a word or phrase is used in this law clearly indicates otherwise, the following words and phrases are given the meanings given below in relation to those words and phrases.
(a) "Control" refers to establishing certain limits and standards for a person's liberty and restraining that person's liberty within those limits and standards.
(b) "Private places" refers to land, houses, plots, buildings registered in a person's name, houses and households used for human habitation, offices, and plots, buildings, halls, and grounds that have been given for use by a certain group by a certain authority under a certain procedure.
(c) "Owner" refers, in relation to a private place, to the owner of that place. In relation to a rented place, to the person who has rented that place. In the case of a unit or a part of a condominium, to the owner of that unit or part. And in a situation where none of those persons are in any of those places or in any other situation, it also includes the person living in that place or the person in charge of that place at that time.
(d) "Person protecting interests" refers to any person over the age of 18 (eighteen) years whom the person being questioned in relation to a criminal offense or the person suspected of the crime designates as a person who can protect his interests.
(e) "International Law of the Sea" refers to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.
(f) "Child of an age at which criminal liability can be imposed" refers to a child of an age at which children are required to bear criminal liability as determined in Law No. 18/2019 (Juvenile Justice Act).
