Law on Small and Medium Enterprises

Chapter One
Introduction

1. Title and Introduction

(a) This is the law to establish the necessary framework and to stipulate the relevant principles for the promotion and development of micro, small and medium enterprises in the Maldives.

(b) This Law shall be cited as the "Law on Small and Medium Enterprises".

2. Objectives of the Law

The main objectives of this Law are stated below.

(a) To establish a conducive environment for micro, small and medium enterprises in the Maldives, to expand their role in the Maldivian economy, and to enable them to become competitive and sustainable businesses at a national and international level.

(b) To facilitate the increase of long-term employment opportunities in micro, small and medium enterprises and to increase the number of middle-income earners.

(c) To establish methods to coordinate, monitor, and evaluate government policies affecting micro, small and medium enterprises and government programs and activities related to such enterprises.

(d) To reduce the disparity between micro, small and medium enterprises and large enterprises operating in the Maldives in terms of business operations, financial capacity, skills, experience, and other such matters.

(e) To collect and maintain information required for conducting research and formulating policies related to micro, small and medium enterprises.

(f) To establish a system for the centralized registration of micro, small and medium enterprises.

Chapter Two
Business Classification

3. Business Categories

(a) For the purposes of this Law, businesses are divided into the following 3 (three) categories.

(1) Micro-enterprises;
(2) Small enterprises; and
(3) Medium enterprises.

(b) In determining the category of a business under subsection (a) of this section, the number of its employees, the total annual revenue, and the amount of annual net profit shall be considered.

(c) In including a business in a specific category under subsection (a) of this section, the business shall be assigned to a specific category based on the criteria set out in the following table.
Category	Number of Employees	Total Revenue	Net Profit
Micro	0 - 5	Up to 1,000,000 (one million) Rufiyaa	Up to 250,000 (two hundred and fifty thousand) Rufiyaa
Small	6 - 30	From 1,000,001 (one million and one) Rufiyaa to 10,000,000 (ten million) Rufiyaa	From 250,001 (two hundred and fifty thousand and one) Rufiyaa to 2,500,000 (two million five hundred thousand) Rufiyaa
Medium	31 - 100	From 10,000,001 (ten million and one) Rufiyaa to 30,000,000 (thirty million) Rufiyaa	From 2,500,001 (two million five hundred thousand and one) Rufiyaa to 5,000,000 (five million) Rufiyaa

(d) When classifying a business in accordance with subsection (c) of this section, if the number of employees, the amount of revenue, and the amount of net profit of a particular business do not fall within the 3 (three) criteria specified in any one category, the business shall be classified by reference to the result obtained by giving priority to each criterion at a specific ratio using the formula set out in Schedule 1 of this Law.

(e) For the purpose of classifying micro, small and medium enterprises under this Law, if any 2 (two) of the criteria, namely the number of employees, the total revenue, or the net profit of any business, exceed the maximum figures specified in the table in subsection (c) of this section, that business shall not be considered a micro, small or medium enterprise.

(f) Notwithstanding subsection (e) of this section, if the total annual revenue of a party exceeds 30,000,000 (thirty million) Rufiyaa, that party shall not be considered a party classified as a micro, small or medium enterprise for that year.

(g) The Ministry shall be the lead body responsible for determining the practical activities to be carried out for the implementation of the policies formulated by the Government for the development of the businesses included in the categories specified in subsection (a) of this section, and for implementing such activities, and for monitoring related matters.

4. Transfer from one category to another

(a) A business included in one of the categories specified in section 3 (a) of this Law may be transferred to another category in one of the following circumstances.

(1) By reference to the information submitted to the Registrar under subsections (b) and (c) of this section, once every year, before the end of August of that year; or
(2) In connection with a change in the number of employees of a business or the total revenue or net profit of the preceding year, as may be prescribed by a regulation made under this Law, upon submission by the business to the Registrar.

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a) (1) of this section, the Commissioner General of Taxation shall, before the end of July of each year, submit the following information submitted to the MIRA with the tax returns of micro, small and medium enterprises to the Registrar.

(1) The number of employees of the businesses;
(2) The total revenue of the businesses for the preceding year; and
(3) The net profit of the businesses for the preceding year.

(c) For the purpose of subsection (a) (1) of this section, among the micro, small and medium enterprises, the Maldives Pension Administration Office shall, before the end of July of each year, submit to the Registrar the information on the number of employees of the businesses that are registered with the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme under Law No. 8/2009 (Maldives Pension Act).

(d) Upon the commencement of the 2nd Amendment to Law No. 6/2013 (Small and Medium Enterprises Act), the Registrar shall reclassify and register the micro, small and medium enterprises in accordance with section 3 of this Law and publish the same before 30 July 2022.

5. Register of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises

(a) Under this Law, micro, small and medium enterprises shall be classified into the categories specified in section 3 (a) of this Law and shall be registered and maintained by the Registrar in the manner prescribed in the regulation made under this Law.

(b) The Registrar shall establish a system for providing the information contained in the register referred to in subsection (a) of this section to the public in the manner prescribed in the regulation made under this Law. And the Registrar has the authority to charge a fee for providing the information contained in that register to the public, as may be prescribed by a regulation made under this Law.

8. Conditions for receiving benefits

Unless otherwise provided in this Law, any benefit or concession provided under this Law to businesses included in a category specified in section 3 (a) of this Law shall be granted only if the following conditions are met in relation to that business.

(a) The business is registered as a business included in a category specified in section 3 (a) of this Law;
(b) The business is:
(1) if it is a sole proprietorship, a business of a Maldivian citizen;
(2) if it is a business run by a cooperative society, the members of that society are Maldivian citizens;
(3) if it is a business run by a partnership, the partners in that partnership are Maldivian citizens; or
(4) if it is a business run by a company, the shareholders of that company are Maldivian citizens;
(c) If the business is a business directly or indirectly controlled by another business, the second business must also be a business included in a category specified in section 3 (a) of this Law and a business that meets the conditions specified in this section;
(d) No share of the ownership of the business has been issued to the public by way of public offering of shares.

9. Submission of reports by beneficiaries

If any micro, small or medium enterprise specified in this Law receives any benefit under this Law, it shall, in each year during the period in which the benefit is being received, submit to the Registrar the information specified in the regulation made under this Law in relation to that business in the manner prescribed in that regulation.

10. Authorization to grant benefits to priority sectors

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the other sections of this Law, this Law does not prevent the Government from establishing specific policies, conducting specific programs, granting specific benefits, and creating specific advantages for certain businesses operating in a particular sector that require special protection, by giving benefits to the categories specified in section 3 (a) of this Law in proportion to those categories.

Chapter Three
The Council

11. Establishment of the Council

(a) Within 2 (two) months from the date of commencement of this Law, a council shall be established by the President by the name of "Small and Medium Enterprises Council".

(b) The council established under subsection (a) of this section is the main body that advises the Ministry in determining the practical activities to be carried out for the implementation of the policies formulated by the Government for the development of the businesses included in the categories specified in section 3 (a) of this Law.

(c) Members of the Council shall be appointed and dismissed by the President.

(d) The Chairperson of the Council shall be the Minister by virtue of his/her office. From among the members of the Council, a member from among the members specified in subsections (b) to (m) of section 13 of this Law shall be appointed by the President as the Vice Chairperson of the Council.

(e) The Secretariat of the Council shall be maintained by the Ministry.

12. Responsibilities of the Council

(a) The responsibilities of the Council are to advise the Minister on achieving the objectives set out in subsection (b) of this section.

(b) The main responsibilities of the Council are stated below.

(1) To formulate a national framework for the promotion and development of micro, small and medium enterprises;
(2) To determine the practical activities to be carried out for the implementation of the policies formulated by the Government for the promotion and development of micro, small and medium enterprises;
(3) To prepare a budget for all activities carried out for the promotion and development of micro, small and medium enterprises, and to include in such budget the expenses incurred for the establishment of the institutions, centers, schemes, and funds established under this Law, and for carrying out various activities under this Law;
(4) To ensure that the programs planned at the national level for the promotion and development of micro, small and medium enterprises are programs that achieve the goals of the Government's economic policy;
(5) In collaboration with the relevant ministries, government agencies, and relevant parties in the private sector, and with their consultation, to monitor and evaluate the implementation of policies, programs, and activities affecting micro, small and medium enterprises;
(6) To monitor the functioning of the business development service centers and to assess the extent to which results are achieved from the activities conducted by them;
(7) To work on the implementation of the policies established to increase the means of obtaining debt and savings services, participation in capital markets, and other financial services;
(8) To work on increasing business opportunities for micro, small and medium enterprises;
(9) To work on finding financial assistance for micro, small and medium enterprises and to formulate, implement, and review the principles of disbursement of aid to ensure that the disbursed funds are used in the most beneficial and desirable manner;
(10) To encourage the private sector to assist in achieving the objectives of this Law, and in matters such as providing the services determined to be provided by the business development service centers, and to conduct programs that encourage the private sector to provide such assistance;
(11) To give special importance to businesses operating in the areas determined by the Council as priority areas in accordance with the national development framework or as provided by law;
(12) To work towards establishing a framework with fewer administrative requirements and obstacles for the regulation of micro, small and medium enterprises under a comprehensive framework that is conducive to them;
(13) To work on familiarizing micro, small and medium enterprises with the principles of good governance in business operations and to promote those principles;
(14) To formulate a framework giving importance to priority areas for studying the situation of micro, small and medium enterprises to which funds are disbursed from the financial assistance fund;
(15) To assist in the creation and protection of brands created by micro, small and medium enterprises;
(16) To conduct studies related to the promotion and development of micro, small and medium enterprises, and to publish information indicating the rate of commencement and cessation of micro, small and medium enterprises, their mode of operation, and the sectors in which they operate; and
(17) To do the things necessary to achieve the objectives of this Law, and to do other things as determined by the regulation made under this Law or any other law.

(c) The Council shall have regard to the objectives of this Law in carrying out its responsibilities. And the decisions of the Council shall be made in a manner that does not prejudice the objectives of this Law and in a manner that promotes and upholds those objectives.

13. Members of the Council

The Small and Medium Enterprises Council shall consist of the following 14 (fourteen) members.

(a) The Minister responsible for the implementation of economic policies;
(b) The Minister responsible for the implementation of fisheries and agriculture policies;
(c) The Minister responsible for the implementation of tourism policies;
(d) The Minister responsible for the implementation of fiscal policies;
(e) A representative representing women entrepreneurs;
(f) A representative of the civil society from the fisheries sector;
(g) A representative of the civil society from the agriculture sector;
(h) A representative of the civil society from the tourism sector;
(i) A representative of the civil society from the information, communication and technology sector;
(j) A representative of the civil society from the construction sector;
(k) A senior official from the financial sector of the Maldives Monetary Authority;
(l) A senior official of the Maldives Inland Revenue Authority (MIRA);
(m) The Managing Director or CEO of the Business Center Corporation Limited (BCC) referred to in section 23 of this Law;
(n) The Managing Director or CEO of the SME Development Finance Corporation Limited (SDFC) established to provide special financial assistance to small and medium enterprises.

14. Matters relating to the administration of the Council

(a) The Council shall make a regulation regarding the dates on which the meetings of the Council shall be held, the manner in which those meetings shall be conducted, the manner in which matters may be submitted to the Council and matters may be decided, the minutes of the meetings, and other matters relating to the administration of the Council.

(b) In a situation where a member specified in subsections (a), (b), (c) and (d) of section 13 of this Law is unable to attend a meeting of the Council, that member has the authority to appoint a senior official of that Ministry to attend the meeting on his/her behalf.

15. Meeting of the Council

A meeting of the Council shall be held at least 2 (two) times in each quarter of the Gregorian year.

16. Quorum and Voting

(a) A meeting of the Council may be held only when more than half of the members of the Council are present.
(b) Any matter may be decided by the Council only with the majority of the members present and voting at the meeting.

17. Resignation and Removal from Membership

(a) Members of the Council who are members by virtue of their office shall remain members of the Council for the duration of their tenure in the office by which they became members of the Council.
(b) Resignation from the membership of the Council may be made by members other than those who are members of the Council by virtue of their office.
(c) If a member from among the members who may resign from the membership of the Council under subsection (b) of this section wishes to resign from membership, he/she shall submit a written resignation to the President, and upon receipt of the letter of resignation by the President, that member shall be deemed to have resigned from membership.

18. Allowances

The President may determine a financial allowance to be paid to the members other than those who are members of the Council by virtue of their office for each meeting they attend. And if a financial allowance is so determined, the amount of that allowance shall be determined by the President in consultation with the Minister of Finance and Treasury.

19. Abstention from a matter in which a member has a personal interest

(a) No member of the Council shall do anything to protect his/her personal interest in the performance of his/her duties as a member of the Council. And no member shall participate in deciding a matter in which a personal interest is involved.
(b) If a matter being discussed for a decision by the Council is a matter in which a member of the Council has a personal interest, that member shall, after informing the other members of the Council, abstain from the discussions relating to that matter or from deciding that matter.

20. Circumstances in which it shall be considered that a member's interest is being protected

Protecting the personal interest of a member of the Council shall be deemed to be the case if an act of a member or a course of action chosen in connection with the work of the Council directly or indirectly facilitates one of the following.

(a) To increase the value of the property owned by a member of the Council or to maintain that value as such; or
(b) For a financial liability of a member of the Council to be extinguished or for the proportion of that liability to be reduced; or
(c) For a financial right that one did not previously have to be newly granted; or
(d) For an income received by one to increase; or
(e) To be appointed to the position of a leader of an association, a society, a trade union, a partnership or any other such work or to a position of influence.

21. Circumstances in which it shall not be considered that a member's interest is being protected

In the following circumstances, it shall not be considered that a member of the Council is trying to protect his/her personal interest.

(a) The manner in which a member of the Council acted is a matter that benefits a large number of citizens more than it benefits a particular person;
(b) Along with a benefit to a member of the Council, it is a matter that benefits a large number of citizens in that category.

22. Annual Report of the Council

The Council shall prepare an annual report indicating the main activities conducted and the main decisions made by the Council during the period from 1 January to 31 December of each year, or in the year in which the Council commences its operations, for the remaining period of that year. And that report shall be sent to the President and published to the public by the end of March of the following year.

Chapter Four
Business Development Service Company and Centers

23. Company providing business development services for micro, small and medium enterprises

(a) In order to achieve the objectives of this Law, a company with one hundred percent government shareholding shall be established under the supervision of the Ministry to coordinate, plan, and implement the policies formulated under this Law and the programs and activities conducted by the government in relation to these businesses to create a conducive environment for micro, small and medium enterprises.

(b) The company referred to in subsection (a) of this section is the Business Center Corporation Limited (BCC) established by Presidential Decree No. 3/2017 (20 March 2017).

(c) The main responsibilities of the BCC are as follows.

(1) To provide the necessary assistance for the development of micro, small and medium enterprises;
(2) To give special importance in providing services to the sectors determined by the Minister to be given priority among the micro, small and medium enterprises;
(3) To conduct programs and provide services necessary to promote new ways of doing business related to micro, small and medium enterprises;
(4) To provide assistance to micro, small and medium enterprises in providing financial assistance provided under this Law;
(5) In providing services to micro, small and medium enterprises, to conduct programs in the spirit of providing service rather than giving priority to obtaining financial profit for the company.

(d) The policies and other principles relating to the performance of the responsibilities assigned to the BCC under this Law shall be stated in the regulation made under this Law.

(e) The Ministry has the power to formulate a separate budget for the operation of the BCC and the centers referred to in section 24 of this Law with the advice of the Council. The budget so formulated may be included in the state budget.

24. Business Development Service Center

(a) Within 3 (three) months from the date of commencement of the 1st Amendment to Law No. 6/2013 (Small and Medium Enterprises Act), the BCC shall re-establish the centers providing business development services for micro, small and medium enterprises, and shall establish additional centers required for providing business development services for micro, small and medium enterprises in various regions of the Maldives.

(b) The manner in which the centers referred to in subsection (a) of this section shall be established, the principles for determining the places where they shall be established, the services determined to be provided by those centers, and other principles relating to the administration of those centers shall be stated in the regulation made under this Law.

25. Annual Budget and Work Plan

The annual budget of the company referred to in section 23 of this Law and the action plan for the implementation of its activities shall be formulated by the company, submitted to the Ministry, and approved by the Ministry with the advice of the Council.

26. Annual Report

From the date of commencement of the 1st Amendment to Law No. 6/2013 (Small and Medium Enterprises Act) until the end of 31 December of that year, and in each subsequent year from 1 January to 31 December, the BCC shall prepare an annual report stating the main activities conducted by the BCC under this Law, the important decisions made, and the work done to implement the work plan referred to in section 25 of this Law. And, by the end of March of the following year, the report shall be sent to the Ministry and the Council.

27. Charging fees

The BCC referred to in section 23 of this Law and the business development service centers referred to in section 24 of this Law may charge a fee for the services provided under this Law in accordance with the regulation made under this Law.

Chapter Five
Providing Financial Assistance

28. Establishment of a Financial Assistance Scheme

(a) Within 1 (one) year from the date of commencement of this Law, the Minister shall establish a scheme to provide financial assistance to micro, small and medium enterprises in order to achieve the objective of section 29 of this Law.

(b) The scheme referred to in subsection (a) of this section shall be operated through the fund established by the Minister in accordance with section 30 of this Law.

(c) The scheme referred to in subsection (a) of this section shall be operated in accordance with the main policies and principles determined by the Council. And the Minister shall be responsible for the work of that scheme.

29. Objective of the Scheme

The objectives of the scheme referred to in section 28 of this Law are to do the following in order to assist in overcoming the challenges faced by micro, small and medium enterprises in obtaining debt financing.

(a) To disburse funds to businesses on credit;
(b) To encourage banks to adopt lenient and easy procedures in disbursing loans to businesses;
(c) To introduce a credit guarantee scheme to increase their ability to obtain debt financing;
(d) To conduct other activities and programs determined by the Ministry with the advice of the Council for the promotion and development of businesses.

30. Establishment of the Fund

Within 2 (two) months of the passing of the first state budget after the commencement of this Law, the Minister shall establish a fund for the purpose of the scheme established under section 28 of this Law.

31. Policy of the Fund

The policy of disbursing funds from the fund under this Law is based on the following principles.

(a) To be an assistance provided based on business-related conditions determined by the fund, with or without collateral;
(b) To provide opportunities for those who do not have the opportunity to use their skills and talents, or who are unable to use them to their fullest extent, to use their skills and talents;
(c) To provide assistance to a person in need, rather than just for that moment, by assisting in starting a business of their own and facilitating the development and sustainability of that business.

32. Matters for which funds may be disbursed from the Fund

Under this Law, funds shall be disbursed from the fund for the following purposes.

(a) To construct, enlarge, repair, or complete a building required for a proposed business, or to prepare a place for a proposed business or work;
(b) To purchase machinery, equipment, or tools required for a business;
(c) To maintain the cash required to be on hand for the day-to-day expenses of the business;
(d) To disburse funds with the advice of a financial institution or a bank to settle a debt of the business;
(e) If something required in connection with a specific matter of the business is available on credit, to pay the amount payable for that thing under that principle;
(f) If it is necessary to rent a land, a place, a building, or a thing in connection with a proposed business, to do so; and
(g) With the introduction of the credit guarantee scheme referred to in section 28 of this Law, to provide funds to the extent determined by the Council for the operation of that scheme.
(h) For a loan or financial assistance given to cover the cost of such a course in order to complete a skill development program conducted by the government;
(i) To the BCC for the implementation of a project for the promotion of micro, small and medium enterprises determined by the Ministry with the advice of the Council, through the BCC referred to in section 23 of this Law.

33. Manner in which funds may be disbursed

(a) Funds may be disbursed from the fund established under this Law in the following ways.

(1) Disbursement of funds on the guarantee of the persons included in the business of the applicant for the funds or of another trustworthy person, without any collateral; or
(2) Disbursement of funds on a long-term repayment basis with collateral; or
(3) Disbursement of funds to the credit scheme referred to in section 28 of this Law on a principle advised by the Council.

(b) The detailed procedures to be followed in providing the types of assistance specified in subsection (a) of this section shall be published by the Minister to the public.

34. Agreement of the Fund

(a) In order to disburse funds from the fund under this Law, an agreement formulated in accordance with this Law shall be signed between the applicant for the funds and the fund.
(b) This agreement shall include the details of the funds and the details of the manner in which the funds will be repaid.

35. Not to use funds for another purpose

Funds disbursed from the fund under this Law shall not, under any circumstances, be used for a purpose other than the purpose for which the funds were disbursed.

36. Amount of funds

In accordance with this Law, the maximum amount of funds disbursed to businesses is 3,000,000 (three million) Rufiyaa.

37. Charging fees

A fee may be charged by the fund for the disbursement of funds. That fee is a fee charged to the fund to cover the expenses incurred for the disbursement of the funds.

38. Giving guarantee

(a) When disbursing funds from the fund, the fund shall obtain a written guarantee from the parties who guarantee that the funds will be repaid in accordance with the law.
(b) In the event that a party to whom funds are disbursed under section 33 (a) (1) of this Law fails to repay the funds as required, the direct responsibility for paying the outstanding amount of the funds shall be borne by the party who gives the guarantee in accordance with subsection (a) of this section.

39. Deposit of funds to the Fund

The following funds shall be deposited to the fund.

(a) Funds disbursed to the fund from the state budget;
(b) Funds given from time to time for the purpose of the fund by the government, a decentralized body, a donor, or any other party;
(c) The fee charged in connection with the funds disbursed from the fund or in connection with a service provided by the fund;
(d) The proceeds from the investments made with the funds in the fund; and
(e) Any funds receivable in any way as a result of any matter related to the scheme.

40. Disbursement of funds from the budget

(a) At least 50,000,000 (fifty million) Rufiyaa shall be included in the state budget each year as funds disbursed to the fund for the disbursement of funds in accordance with this Law from the fund referred to in section 30 of this Law.
(b) In addition to the funds specified in subsection (a) of this section, the budget required as capital or loan for the operation of the fund referred to in section 30 of this Law and for the operation of the BCC referred to in section 23 of this Law, and the budget required for the operation of the scheme referred to in section 28 of this Law, for achieving the objectives of that scheme, and for doing other things necessary for the implementation of this Law, shall be formulated by the Ministry with the advice of the Council and submitted to the Minister responsible for the implementation of fiscal policies for inclusion in the state budget.
(c) The funds disbursed under subsection (b) of this section shall be funds to be disbursed separately from the funds disbursed under subsection (a) of this section.

41. Administration

The scheme shall be administered as a separate unit of the Ministry under the supervision of an Administrator.

42. Annual Report of the Scheme

The Administrator shall prepare an annual report on the functioning of the scheme and the fund during the period from 1 January to 31 December of each year, or in the year in which the scheme commences its operations, for the remaining period of that year, and shall send it to the Minister and the Council by the end of March of the following year.

Chapter Six
Procedures relating to Registration

43. Registration

(a) If a business that is started by being registered in the Maldives after the commencement of this Law is a business included in one of the categories specified in section 3 (a) of this Law, it shall be registered as a business of one of those categories within a maximum of 6 (six) months from the date of its registration.
(b) Among the businesses that are being operated by being registered in the Maldives at the time of the commencement of this Law, the businesses that meet the criteria for micro, small and medium enterprises under section 3 of this Law shall be registered as a business of one of the categories specified in section 3 (a) of this Law within 6 (six) months from the date of commencement of this Law.
(c) The application for registration under subsection (a) or (b) of this section shall be submitted to the Registrar through the form prescribed by the Ministry. And the responsibility for doing so shall be borne by the responsible party of that business.
(d) When applying for registration in accordance with subsection (a) or (b) of this section, the following information relating to that business shall be submitted.

(1) A copy of the business registration;
(2) The number of employees in the business;
(3) The estimated total revenue for a year; and
(4) Other information as may be prescribed by a regulation made under this Law.
(5) A document indicating that the business is registered with the Maldives Inland Revenue Authority under Law No. 3/2010 (Tax Administration Act).

(e) For the purpose of subsection (c) of this section, the responsible party of a business establishment is referred to as the following parties.

(1) If it is a company, the board of directors of the company;
(2) If it is a partnership, the partners of that partnership;
(3) If it is a cooperative society, the managing committee of that society; and
(4) If it is a sole proprietorship, the owner of the business.

43-1. Registration by new businesses

(a) After the commencement of the 2nd Amendment to Law No. 6/2013 (Small and Medium Enterprises Act), every newly registered business shall, along with the documents for the registration of that business, submit to the Registrar for registration in a category among the categories specified in section 3 (a) of this Law, based on the projected income and number of employees for the 12 (twelve) month period following the date of registration of that business.
(b) The application for registration under subsection (a) of this section shall be submitted through the form prescribed in the regulation made under this Law, in the manner prescribed in that regulation.
(c) Upon receipt of an application submitted under subsection (b) of this section, the Registrar shall, with reference to the projected income and number of employees for the 12 (twelve) month period following the date of registration of that business, if it is a business included in a category of micro, small and medium enterprises, determine the category to which that business belongs in accordance with section 3 of this Law, and shall classify and register that business on the date of its registration.

Chapter Seven
Use of Goods and Services

45. Procurement of goods and services for the State

In procuring goods and services for a government agency or a state institution through a bidding process, if more than one party among the bidders receive the same score upon evaluation of the bids, priority shall be given to the party that is a small or medium enterprise.

46. Handicraft Products

(a) Among the handicraft products sold, used, or given as gifts in every resort in the Maldives, products produced by micro, small and medium enterprises shall be included.
(b) The products referred to in subsection (a) of this section shall be identifiable as Maldivian products from those products.

Chapter Nine
General Provisions

54. Commencement of operation

This Law shall come into force on the date of its publication in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

55. Making of Regulations

(a) The regulations that are required to be made by the Council under this Law shall be made and implemented by the Council. Those regulations shall be made and published to the public within 3 (three) months from the date of the establishment of the Council under this Law.
(b) The other regulations required to be made under this Law shall be made and implemented by the Minister. Those regulations shall be made and published to the public within 3 (three) months from the date of commencement of this Law.

56. Definitions

Unless the context in which a word or phrase is used in this Law clearly indicates otherwise, the following words and phrases in this Law are given the meanings given below.

(a) "Business development service" means services related to the promotion and development of a micro, small or medium enterprise, including training on starting a business, preparation of business plans, and services related to finance and marketing.

(b) "Employee" means a person who provides service under an employment agreement. And this term shall also include independent contractors and employees who have previously worked for the employer.

(c) "Handicraft products" means artistic products made by hand using various tools, including wooden products, paintings, woven items, and lacquer work.

(d) "Person" or "party" means natural persons and legal persons.

(e) "Registrar" means the Registrar of Companies referred to in Law No. 10/96 (Maldives Companies Act).

(f) "Priority sector" means a business, a business sector, and business entities determined to require special assistance in accordance with the national development framework.

(g) "Council" means the Small and Medium Enterprises Council established under section 11 of this Law.

(h) "Scheme" means the credit guarantee scheme established under section 28 of this Law.

(i) "Minister" means the Minister responsible for the implementation of economic policies.

(j) "Total revenue" means the total amount received from the sale of goods and services before any deduction or subtraction of any expenses.

(k) "Ministry" means the government ministry to which the responsibility for implementing economic policies is assigned at that time.

(l) "Direct or indirect control" means:

(1) if the business is a company, to control at least 25% (twenty-five percent) of the voting power of the company directly or indirectly, or through another person or persons; or
(2) if the business is a partnership, to control at least 25% (twenty-five percent) of the voting interest of the partnership directly or indirectly, or through another person or persons.

(m) "Senior official" means the Commissioner General of Taxation, the Governor of the Maldives Monetary Authority, and the employees of the level of Assistant Director and above of the institutions that a Minister referred to in subsections (a), (b), (c) and (d) of section 13 of this Law determines for the purpose of section 13 or 14 of this Law.

Schedule 1
(This appears to be a reference to a schedule that is not included in the provided text.)
