Law on the National Social Health Insurance System

Part One
Introduction and Objective

Introduction and Name
1.
(a) This is the law that establishes a national health insurance system to facilitate easy access to adequate, good-quality basic health services for all citizens of the Maldives, details the organization of that system, and states the principles for its sound management.

(b) This law shall be cited as the "Law on the National Social Health Insurance System".

Objective
2.
The purpose of this law is to achieve the following main objectives:

(a) To legally guarantee the right of Maldivian citizens to receive basic health services of good quality on an equal basis;

(b) To legally establish a national social health insurance system that will arrange for the cost of basic health services of good quality for Maldivian citizens on an equal basis;

(c) To establish a national system that pools risks among different segments of the population socially, economically, by age, and by health status, with contributions based on each person's economic situation;

(d) To reduce out-of-pocket expenses for obtaining good quality basic services and to protect all citizens of the Maldives from economic and social hardship arising from health expenditures;

(e) To reduce the administrative costs of the national social health insurance system and the cost of health services, and to use health resources in the most beneficial way;

(f) To establish a separate office named the "National Social Protection Agency" to administer the national social health insurance system and to provide its services throughout all regions of the Maldives;

(g) To establish a sustainable national social health insurance system;

(h) To take steps to encourage the improvement and development of service quality to ensure that the health services provided through the scheme are of an adequate and good standard.

Important Principles and Standards to be Maintained in Implementing the Law
3.
The following principles and standards shall be maintained in the implementation of this law and in the administration of the social health insurance scheme established under this law:

(a) To allocate state resources to the scheme established under this law and to encourage, through the scheme, the government to prioritize health services to raise the standard of living at a rapid pace;

(b) To provide health services to the participants of the scheme established under this law on an equal basis;

(c) To make it mandatory for all citizens of the Maldives to participate in the scheme established under this law, in order to prevent social discrimination and favoritism;

(d) The health services provided under the scheme shall be services that meet the health needs of people of all ages and both genders;

(e) To use resources economically and to assess the quality of health services at a uniform standard for the proper functioning of the scheme;

(f) To provide the services available under the scheme easily and as close as possible;

(g) To take steps to encourage the improvement and development of service quality to ensure that the health services provided through the scheme are of an adequate and good standard.

(h) Notwithstanding the provision in subsection (n) of this article, this article does not prevent a person from participating in a scheme that is not less than the national social health insurance system.

Part Two
Social Health Insurance Scheme

National Social Health Insurance Scheme
4.
(a) A "Social Health Insurance Scheme" shall be formulated by the Agency and administered in accordance with this law and the regulations made hereunder, in order to establish a national social health insurance system that provides financial assistance to citizens with limited financial means to cover the costs of health services and provides services to all on an equal basis.

(b) The Agency shall ensure that the scheme provides basic health insurance services that guarantee Maldivian citizens easy and equal access to adequate, good-quality health services, in accordance with this law and the principles established hereunder.

(c) The scheme must be one that establishes a sustainable system for its continuation.

(d) All expenses of the scheme shall be paid for by the state, by the various participants of the scheme, and by funds received by the scheme through other resources specified in this law and the regulations made hereunder. Under no circumstances shall this scheme be based on a system where participants of the scheme pay for the services and seek reimbursement for those expenses.

(e) Notwithstanding the provision in subsection (d) of this article, the reimbursement of expenses incurred for obtaining a special medicine, biological, prosthetic, or other device that is not available in the Maldives for a specific group of people or in a specific situation, in accordance with a prescribed procedure, shall not be considered in the application of subsection (d) of this article.

Participation in the Scheme
5.
(a) All Maldivian citizens shall be included in the scheme established under this law.

(b) The Agency shall ensure that arrangements are in place for all participants of the scheme to receive services from health service providers specified in the regulations made under this law, through their Maldivian identity card.

Services Available Under the Scheme
6.
The following types of health services related to the following matters shall be available under the scheme:

(a) In-patient treatment provided at health care facilities;

(b) Out-patient treatment provided at health care facilities;

(c) Treatment required following an emergency and accident;

(d) Prescription drugs and devices necessary for treatment;

(e) Dispensing of medicine and therapeutic devices in accordance with established procedures;

(f) Treatment that must be sought from outside the Maldives on the advice of a doctor, in accordance with established procedures;

(g) Tests conducted for the diagnosis of diseases;

(h) Emergency transportation services required within the Maldives on the advice of a doctor to obtain a health service available under this article;

(i) Other services specified in the regulations made under this law;

(j) Medical check-ups, vaccinations, and prophylactics required upon a doctor's order.

Establishing Specific Procedures for Providing Certain Services Under the Scheme
7.
The Board has the authority to establish specific procedures, limits, and standards for the provision of services available under Article 6 of this law. However, the procedures, limits, and standards thus established must be matters for which the details and information have been publicly announced and provided to the participants of the scheme.

Services Not Available Under the Scheme
8.
The Board has the power and authority to determine the health services and health-related services and matters excluded from the scheme established under this law, in a manner that does not contradict the purpose of this law. However, the services or matters thus determined must be matters for which the details and information have been publicly announced and provided to the participants of the scheme.

Determining Prescription Drugs Excluded Under This Law
9.
The Board has the power and authority to determine the medicines, biologicals, and other items excluded from the scheme established under this law, in a manner that does not contradict the purpose of this law. However, the medicines, biologicals, and other items thus determined must be items for which the details and information have been publicly announced and provided to the participants of the scheme.

Providing Insurance Services Under the Scheme
10.
(a) The entity that will, in conjunction with the government, administer the social health insurance scheme established with a government share under this law and provide insurance services to the participants of the scheme in accordance with this law, shall be selected through a competitive bidding process. The procedures and conditions of the bidding process and the pre-qualification requirements for bidding shall be approved by the Board.

(b) The social health insurance scheme established under this law shall have a government share of at least 40% (forty percent).

Part Three
Providers of Services Under the Scheme

Providers of Health Services and Health-Related Services and Matters Included in the Scheme
11.
The following are the entities that will provide health services and health-related services and matters under the scheme established under this law. These entities shall provide health services to the participants of the scheme in accordance with this law and the regulations made hereunder.

(a) All government- or state-run health care facilities;

(b) Health care facilities that receive financial or material assistance from the government or the state, or in which the government has a share;

(c) Private health care facilities in the Maldives not included in subsections (a) and (b) of this article, which meet the standards specified in the regulations made under this law;

(d) Entities that provide prescription drugs and therapeutic devices that meet the standards specified in the regulations made under this law;

(e) Transportation service providers that provide services required for medical evacuation;

(f) Providers of emergency medical services.

Registration
12.
Every facility or entity providing health services and health-related services under the scheme established under this law must be a facility or entity registered with the Agency in accordance with the regulations made under this law.

Registration of Foreign Health Service Providers
13.
The Agency has the authority to register foreign health service providers from among the facilities that will provide health services under the scheme established under this law, in accordance with the regulations made hereunder.

Main Principles to be Maintained by Registered Entities
14.
The procedures and standards that must be followed by facilities registered with the Agency as providers of health services under the scheme established under this law shall be specified in the regulations made under this law.

Monitoring of Services
15.
The Agency shall establish a system to monitor the facilities registered under this law in order to review the following matters and take action on them:

(a) To assess whether the health services they provide are being used contrary to the established standards or not;

(b) To assess whether the health services they provide are being used less than the adequate standard;

(c) To assess the inappropriate prescription, dispensing, and administration of prescription drugs and therapeutic devices;

(d) To assess whether patients are being referred to doctors inappropriately.

Provision of Information
16.
The insurer and the providers of services provided under the scheme shall provide the Agency with the information necessary to monitor the matters that the Agency is required to monitor under Article 15 of this law, in the manner specified by the Agency.

System for Paying Health Service Providers
17.
(a) The facility that provided the service shall request payment from the insurer for the services provided under the scheme established under this law. The facility that provided the service must be a party registered under this law or a party that acts in accordance with the procedures and standards in the regulations made under this law.

(b) The insurer shall establish a system for promptly and responsibly paying the health service providers under the scheme established under this law. The system so established shall be included in the agreement made between the service provider and the insurer.

(c) The system of payment established under subsection (b) of this article shall detail in the regulations made under this law the matters to be completed by the service providers to receive the payment and the matters to be reviewed by the insurer and the Agency.

Suspension of Payment and Fines
18.
The Agency has the authority to withhold payment or impose a fine on submissions for payment based on incorrect information and if the matters in the regulations made under this law are not fulfilled, until such submissions are rectified by those parties. The procedure for doing so shall be detailed in the agreement made between the Agency and the health service provider.

Part Four
National Social Protection Agency

Establishment of the Agency
19.
Upon the commencement of this law, the President shall establish a separate office named the "National Social Protection Agency". This office is a separate government body established to function without interruption.

Compliance with the Law
20.
Except for matters expressly stated to be done in a specific manner in this law, all actions of the insurer and the Agency shall be carried out in accordance with the laws and regulations in force in the Maldives relating to insurance.

Main Functions of the Agency
21.
The main functions of the Agency are:

(a) To administer and supervise the scheme established under this law and to ensure that the services of the scheme are provided in all sectors of the Maldives;

(b) To establish regulations, standards, and procedures concerning matters other than those stated in this law as the responsibilities of the Minister, in relation to the administration of the scheme established under this law;

(c) To raise awareness regarding the scheme established under this law;

(d) To carry out other matters specified as the responsibilities of the Agency under this law and the regulations made hereunder;

(e) In addition to the matters stated above, to carry out matters assigned by the President concerning social protection systems and programs.

CEO of the Agency
22.
The work of the Agency shall be managed and supervised by the CEO of the Agency. The CEO of the Agency shall be appointed by the President on the advice of the Minister. The CEO of the Agency shall be accountable to the Board and the Minister.

Employees of the Agency
23.
The employees of the Agency are civil servants.

Scheme Management Board
24.
(a) The schemes established under this law shall be managed by a Board of 7 (seven) members. The Board shall be accountable to the Minister.

(b) The members of this Board and the Chairman of the Board shall be appointed and dismissed by the President in consultation with the Minister.

(c) In appointing the members of the Board, persons from the following sectors shall be included:

(1) Ministry of Health;
(2) Ministry of Finance;
(3) Insurance sector;
(4) Government body that oversees social security matters;
(5) Finance and investment sector;
(6) Civil society organization working in the health sector;
(7) CEO of the Agency.

Qualifications of Board Members
25.
Board members must be persons of good repute, capable of fulfilling the responsibilities of the position, possessing technical competence and experience in their field, and free from conflicts of interest. They must not be persons who have been declared bankrupt, and if convicted of theft, tax evasion, robbery, embezzlement, or corruption, they must not be persons within 5 (five) years of completing the sentence or being pardoned for the punishment determined by that sentence.

General Responsibilities of the Board
26.
(a) To establish the general regulations, standards, rules, and procedures related to the scheme established under this law.

(b) To select, through a competitive bidding process, the entity that will, in conjunction with the government, administer the social health insurance scheme established with a government share under this law and provide insurance services to the participants of the scheme in accordance with this law; to approve the procedures and conditions of the bidding process and the pre-qualification requirements for bidding; and to carry out all necessary matters to award the work through the bidding process.

(c) To obtain and manage the funds to be paid to the scheme by the participants of the scheme and by the state, and the funds to be paid to the scheme by other parties, and to establish and maintain the regulations, procedures, and standards related to these matters.

(d) To invest the funds received by the scheme in accordance with the provisions of this law, and to formulate and maintain the regulations, standards, and procedures related to this matter in accordance with the standards set by the securities market regulator.

(e) To take necessary actions to rectify any matter that is being carried out in contravention of the general policies, regulations, standards, rules, and procedures related to the scheme established under this law.

Term of the Board
27.
The term of the members of the Board is 3 (three) years.

Dismissal of Board Members
28.
Board members may be dismissed by the President before the expiry of their term in one of the following circumstances:

(a) Failure to meet any of the qualifications required of a Board member.
(b) A change in the sector the member represents.
(c) Failure to perform his or her job responsibilities as specified.
(d) Failure to attend 5 (five) consecutive Board meetings without a valid excuse as specified in the job description.
(e) Upon submitting a resignation from the Board or upon the death of the person.

Remuneration of the Board
29.
The members of the Board shall be paid a financial allowance for each meeting they attend. The amount of the financial allowance so paid shall be determined by the President in consultation with the Minister of Finance and Treasury.

Procedures for Conducting the Board
30.
The procedures necessary to carry out the responsibilities of the Board shall be established, approved, and implemented by the Board.

Responsibility of the CEO of the Agency
31.
(a) The CEO of the Agency shall be responsible for making the day-to-day decisions of the Agency and for the day-to-day administration of the Agency within the scope of Articles 21 and 26 of this law, without contradicting the principles contained therein.

(b) The CEO is the most senior official responsible for implementing the matters determined by the Board regarding the scheme under Article 26 of this law and for the day-to-day administration of the Agency.

(c) The appointment, dismissal, promotion, and general employment procedures of the Agency's employees, as well as other employee matters, shall be handled by the CEO of the Agency in accordance with the Employment Act and the decisions of the Board.

(d) The CEO shall prepare the annual budget required for the scheme and the annual budget of the Agency on the advice of the Board.

Standards to be Maintained by the CEO and Employees
32.
The CEO of the Agency or an employee of the Agency shall not use their position and influence to promote their personal interests or the personal interests of another party.

Budget of the Agency
33.
The funds required to run the Agency shall be included in the state budget each year. This shall include the government's contribution on behalf of the scheme's participants, the administrative expenses for running the scheme, employee expenses, other expenses related to the scheme, and expenses related to the other functions of the Agency. The government shall release funds to the Agency to commence the scheme established under this law and to commence the operations of the Agency.

Submission of Annual Report
34.
An annual report compiled on the work done by the Agency and on the functioning of the scheme established under this law during that year shall be sent by the Agency to the President, the Minister, and the relevant committee of the People's Majlis before the 28th of February of each year.

Part Five
Financing and Investment for the Scheme

Financing the Scheme
35.
(a) The scheme established under this law shall be financed in the following ways:

(1) From funds received from the state budget;
(2) From the profits earned by investing the assets of the scheme;
(3) From income received from direct or indirect income-generating resources;
(4) From funds obtained as loans and from free aid;
(5) From the funds received from the tax levied by the state on tobacco and products made from tobacco products.

(b) In circumstances where there are financial difficulties in running the scheme, the Ministry of Finance shall resolve the matter upon request from the Agency to obtain the necessary funds.

(c) Upon receiving such a request, the Ministry of Finance shall, after conducting the necessary reviews, decide on the matter as soon as possible. A decision shall be made and the Agency shall be informed within a maximum of 30 (thirty) days from the date the request was received, and the decision shall be implemented within that period.

(d) The Agency shall at all times keep the administrative budget of the Agency and the assets of the scheme separate and not combined.

(e) The Agency shall establish a separate fund to manage the funds and assets received as contributions to the scheme. A bank account shall be established to establish and manage this fund in the manner determined by the Board.

Investing the Funds of the Scheme
36.
(a) The assets of the scheme may be invested in accordance with this article to raise additional funds for the scheme and to run the scheme sustainably. The assets of the scheme shall be invested in accordance with this law and the regulations made hereunder. In making such investments, the Agency shall consider the following matters:

(1) Maintaining liquidity to the extent specified in a regulation made under the law;
(2) The security of the assets;
(3) Investing in the most profitable way while considering the security of the assets;
(4) Investing in a manner that does not contradict the Constitution and laws of the Maldives.

(b) The basic principles of investing the assets of the scheme shall be determined and reviewed by the members of the Board with technical advice and in a manner that does not contradict the regulations of the securities market regulator. The basic principles of investment shall state the following matters:

(1) The instruments in which the assets of the scheme may be invested;
(2) The performance benchmarks that the Board aims to achieve by investing the assets of the scheme;
(3) The main risks in investing the assets of the scheme and the ways to manage those risks;
(4) The parties responsible for determining how to invest and how to make a profit;
(5) The procedure to be followed in determining investment-related matters;
(6) The ways in which the basic principles of investment will be reviewed.

(c) The scheme shall not invest in any of the following types of assets:

(1) Unlisted or not publicly traded securities;
(2) Assets that cannot be legally separated from other assets;
(3) Specific types of derivative instruments determined by the securities market regulator;
(4) Real estate not listed on a regularly organized market, and other property from among which a specific price cannot be determined;
(5) Other types of assets determined by the securities market regulator.

Part Six
Grievance Redressal System

Grievance Redressal System
37.
(a) The Board shall establish a system whereby parties who wish to submit a grievance regarding any matter related to the program established under this law can easily submit that grievance in accordance with the regulations made under this law, and that grievance can be promptly reviewed and action taken, and issues can be resolved amicably.

(b) The following parties have the right to submit a grievance under this law:

(1) Persons who receive services under the scheme;
(2) Parties directly affected by the scheme;
(3) Facilities that provide services under the scheme under this law;
(4) The Agency.

(c) To ascertain the opinion of the service recipients regarding the quality of the services provided under the scheme, a form titled "Suggestions for Service Improvement" shall be made available at the places where the services of the scheme are provided.

Part Seven
Additional Matters

Transfer of "Madhana" under this Law
38.
(a) At the time of commencement of this law, "Madhana," a health service scheme run by the government, was transferred under the Agency upon the commencement of this law.

(b) The transfer of "Madhana" under the Agency in accordance with subsection (a) of this article shall be with all legal responsibilities, duties, powers, authorities, property, and funds that have arisen in connection with that scheme.

Accountability for the Scheme
39.
The policies of the system and scheme established under this law shall be determined by the Minister. The Minister shall determine the matters to be established to ensure the sustainable functioning of this system and to strengthen the system. The Minister shall also be accountable to the People's Majlis regarding these matters.

Making and Implementing Regulations
40.
(a) The regulations to be made under this law shall be made and implemented by the Board. The regulations to be made under this law shall be made by the Board and publicly published with the approval of the Minister within a maximum of 2 (two) months from the date of commencement of this law.

(b) Subsection (a) of this article shall not prevent the making of additions or deletions to the regulations to be made under this subsection or the making of an additional regulation under this law after the period mentioned in that article if the Minister wishes to do so. The Minister shall ensure that the regulations made under this law are being enforced.

(c) The Minister has the authority to make additions and deletions to the schedule of this law. The additions and deletions so made shall be submitted to the relevant committee of the People's Majlis and published in the government gazette.

Commencement of the Law
41.
(a) This law shall come into force on the date of its passing, ratification, and publication in the gazette of the Maldivian government.

(b) Persons shall be appointed to the Board of the Agency in accordance with this law and the work of the Agency and the Board shall commence within a maximum of 30 (thirty) days from the date of commencement of this law.

(c) Notwithstanding the provision in subsection (a) of this article, the scheme to be formulated and administered under this law shall commence its operation in accordance with this law from 1 January 2012.

(d) Subsections (a) and (b) of this article shall not prevent the transfer of "Madhana," a health service scheme run by the government at the time of commencement of this law, under the Agency upon the commencement of this law under subsection (a) of Article 38 of this law, and the continuation of matters that the Minister determines shall be implemented on a specific date in the schedule of this law.

Definitions
42.
(a) Unless otherwise stated in this law;

    "Scheme" refers to the "Social Health Insurance Scheme" established under this law to provide financial assistance to the people to cover the costs of health care and to establish a national social health insurance system that provides services to all on an equal basis.

    "Agency" refers to the office established under this law named the "National Social Protection Agency" to administer the national social health insurance system.

    "Minister" refers to the minister of the government ministry entrusted with the responsibility of determining policies related to the provision of social services to the people.

    "Relevant Committee of the People's Majlis" refers to the committee of the People's Majlis entrusted with the responsibility of overseeing social matters.

    "Board" refers to the board established under this law to oversee the affairs of the "Social Health Insurance Scheme" established under this law.

    "CEO of the Agency" refers to the Chief Executive Officer of the "National Social Protection Agency" established under this law.

    "Assets of the Scheme" refers to the funds received for the administration of the scheme established under this law, the contributions collected from the participants of the insurance scheme, and the funds earned by investing that money.

    "Medicine" refers to any medicine used in a medical manner as a treatment for a disease.

    "Therapeutic Devices" refers to any instruments used for treatment.

    "Providers of services provided under the scheme" refers to the facilities and parties that provide health services, the facilities and parties that provide the services of selling, dispensing, and administering medicine and therapeutic devices, and the facilities and parties that provide emergency transportation services required on the advice of a doctor, under the scheme established under this law.

(b) Words or phrases used in the singular in this law may be used in their plural meaning, and words or phrases used in the plural may be used in their singular meaning.
