Law on the Communications Authority of Maldives

Chapter One

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This is the law to establish an Authority to regulate matters related to the telecommunications and post sector, and to the extent necessary to regulate the telecommunications sector, the infocommunications sector, to formulate policies and principles for the administration of telecommunications and postal services in the Maldives, to govern all matters related to service providers in these sectors, and to define the responsibilities and powers of that Authority.

(b) This Law shall be cited as the "Communications Authority of Maldives Act".

Chapter Two

Communications Authority of Maldives

Establishment of the Authority

2.
(a) Upon the commencement of this Act, a government agency by the name of "Communications Authority of Maldives" is hereby established to formulate the principles for organizing and conducting all matters related to telecommunications and post, and to carry out all necessary actions to enforce this Act.

(b) All assets and resources in use by the Communications Authority of Maldives existing prior to the commencement of this Act, the funds allocated to it from the government budget and approved by the People's Majlis, and all duties and responsibilities to be borne by the Authority under law and agreements, and all rights and benefits conferred upon the Authority under law and agreements, shall be transferred to the Communications Authority of Maldives established under subsection (a) of this Article upon its establishment.

(c) The Minister shall be answerable to the People's Majlis in matters relating to the Authority.

Chapter Three

Objectives and Powers of the Authority

Main Objectives of the Authority

    The main objectives of the Authority are set out below:

(a) To protect the interests of the Maldivian people in the fields of telecommunications and post, and to the extent necessary to regulate the telecommunications sector, in matters relating to the infocommunications sector, and to create an environment in the Maldives that is conducive to investment by doing the following:

(1) To make telecommunications, postal and infocommunications services directly related to the telecommunications sector accessible to all people living in the Maldives, at an economically viable price, in a robust and reliable manner, in a way that meets the economic and social needs of the Maldives, and to make them services of a good standard; and

(2) To promote, expand, and develop the telecommunications and postal industries of the Maldives, to encourage matters that facilitate such, and to make the telecommunications services provided in the Maldives of a good standard, internationally competitive in business, and of a standard that meets the needs of society.

(b) To establish and promote a competitive environment, at national and international levels, for the provision of telecommunications and postal services and infocommunications services directly related to the telecommunications sector;

(c) To implement national policies for the telecommunications and postal industries; and

(d) To license telecommunications and postal service providers and to regulate and administer all matters in those sectors in order to achieve the objectives of this Act.

General Powers of the Authority

    In order to carry out the matters stated as the objectives of the Authority in Article 3 of this Act, the Authority shall have the power to do all things necessary in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

Chapter Four

Board of Directors

Board of Directors

5.
(a) There shall be a Board of Directors of the Authority, which shall be responsible for carrying out the work of the Authority.

(b) The Board shall consist of 5 (five) members.

(c) Members of the Board shall be appointed and removed by the President of the Republic.

(d) The remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors shall be determined by the President of the Republic on the advice of the Minister of Finance and Treasury.

(e) The Board of Directors referred to in subsection (a) of this Article shall be appointed by the President of the Republic within 30 (thirty) days from the date of commencement of this Act.

Qualifications of Members

6.
(a) Persons appointed to the Board as members of the Board of Directors shall have professional education and/or experience in one of the following fields:

(1) The field of telecommunications;
(2) The field of technology or information technology or post;
(3) The field of commerce or business administration;
(4) The economic field;
(5) The legal field;
(6) The field of government administration.

(b) Members appointed to the Board shall meet the following requirements:

(1) To be a person with the academic standard, competence and work ethic to perform the responsibilities and duties of the position of a Board member;
(2) Not to be a person who has been convicted of theft, tax evasion, robbery, fraud, deceit, treason or bribery or a crime for which a hadd is prescribed in Islam within the past 10 (ten) years;
(3) Not to be a person serving a sentence for a criminal offense;
(4) Not to be a bankrupt person;
(5) Not to be a member of the Board of Directors or hold any other position in a company providing telecommunications, postal or infocommunications services directly related to the telecommunications sector or in an agency operating under the Authority;
(6) Not to be a person who holds more than 5% (five percent) of the total shares in a company providing telecommunications, postal or infocommunications services directly related to the telecommunications sector or in an agency operating under the Authority, in his own name or in the name of a person appointed by him or in the name of a company in which he has a share;
(7) Not to be a person elected to a position in an election prescribed by law;
(8) Not to be a person holding a position in a political party.

(c) Each member appointed to the Board under this Article shall be appointed for a term of 5 (five) years. As such, each member appointed shall be appointed for a maximum of 2 (two) terms.

Chairman of the Board

7.
(a) The President of the Republic shall appoint a member from among the members of the Board to the position of Chairman of the Board of Directors.

(b) The responsibilities of the Chairman of the Board are to organize and conduct the work of the Board and to preside over the meetings of the Board.

(c) In the event that the Chairman of the Board is unable to perform a duty that he is required to perform, the Chairman of the Board shall assign that duty to a person from among the members of the Board.

Removal from Membership

8.
(a) If a member of the Board of Directors lacks any of the qualities required by this Act, he may be removed from the membership of the Board.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, the President of the Republic has the discretion to remove a member from office if it appears that the Chairman of the Board or a member of the Board is unable to perform his responsibilities and duties before the expiry of the term of office of that member.

Resignation

9.
(a) If a member of the Board of Directors wishes to resign from his position, he may resign by a letter sent to the President of the Republic. Upon receipt of the letter of resignation by the President of the Republic, that member shall be deemed to have resigned from that position.

(b) The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall also resign in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article. However, even if the Chairman of the Board of Directors resigns from his position, he shall not be deemed to have resigned from the membership of the Board as long as he does not resign from the membership of the Board.

Responsibilities of the Board of Directors

    The responsibilities of the Board of Directors are set out below:

(a) To determine the actions to be taken by the Authority to administer and develop the telecommunications and postal sectors, and the infocommunications sector to the extent necessary to regulate the telecommunications sector;

(b) To make the following regulations relating to the administration of the Authority and to ensure that the Authority operates in accordance with those regulations:

(1) Regulations relating to the administration of the Authority;
(2) Regulations for holding meetings of the Board.

Meetings of the Board

11.
(a) A meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held with the attendance of 3 (three) members of the Board.

(b) A matter shall be deemed to have been decided by the Board when it is passed by a majority of the total members of the Board.

(c) The meetings of the Board shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board. In his absence, the meetings of the Board shall be presided over by a member elected to preside over that meeting from among the members of the Board present at that meeting.

(d) A meeting of the Board shall be held at least once every three months.

(e) If not less than 3 (three) members of the Board wish to hold a meeting of the Board, they may submit a request to the Chairman of the Board stating the reason. And a meeting of the Board shall be held in accordance with the notice within 5 (five) days of the Chairman of the Board receiving that notice.

(f) The Chief Executive has the discretion to submit a written request to the Chairman of the Board to decide on a matter in an expedited manner. If the Chief Executive submits such a submission, a meeting of the Board shall be held within 5 (five) days of the Chairman of the Board receiving that submission, and a decision shall be made on the matter submitted by the Chief Executive.

Chapter Five

Administration of the Authority

Chief Executive

12.
(a) The head of the day-to-day administration of the Authority is the Chief Executive of the Authority. The position of Chief Executive is a position in the Maldivian Civil Service. The responsibilities of the Chief Executive include carrying out the day-to-day tasks necessary to enforce this Act in accordance with the policies determined by the Board of Directors and carrying out all matters of the administrative management of the Authority.

(b) The Chief Executive shall be appointed and removed by the Civil Service Commission. And that position is a Civil Service position at the same level as the Director General of the Civil Service. In addition, the person appointed as Chief Executive must be a person who fulfills the requirements stated in Article 6 of this Act for being a member of the Board of Directors.

(c) It is the responsibility of the Chief Executive to regulate the telecommunications, postal sector and the infocommunications sector to the extent necessary to regulate the telecommunications sector, to carry out the work necessary to develop the telecommunications and postal sectors, to hold meetings of the Authority, to write and maintain the minutes of the meetings, to open and close the bank accounts of the Authority, to maintain the accounts, and to do all things necessary to audit the accounts.

(d) The Chief Executive of the Authority shall represent the Authority in matters where the Authority needs to be represented, except for being answerable to the People's Majlis.

(e) The first Chief Executive of the Authority appointed under this Act shall be appointed within 30 (thirty) days of the commencement of this Act.

Employees of the Authority

13.
(a) The employees of the Authority shall be Civil Service employees. And the Law on the Maldivian Civil Service and the regulations made under that law shall apply to those employees.

(b) An administrative structure stating the job classifications and responsibilities of the technical and administrative staff of the Authority shall be formulated by the Board of the Authority and passed by a majority of the members of the Board. And that structure shall state the qualifications for the positions of the employees of the Authority and the number of employees required for various tasks.

(c) The employees required by the Authority shall be appointed and removed by the Civil Service Commission in accordance with the structure formulated by the Authority under subsection (b) of this Article and with the consultation of the Authority.

(d) The level of the positions of the employees of the Authority and the salary and benefits to which those employees are entitled shall be determined by the Civil Service Commission with the consultation of the Board of the Authority.

(e) The employees of the Communications Authority of Maldives existing prior to the commencement of this Act shall be deemed to be the employees of the Communications Authority of Maldives established under Article 2 of this Act upon its establishment.

(f) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of this Article, a person shall be appointed as Chief Executive in accordance with the provisions of Article 12 of this Act.

Legal Protection

    No action shall be brought against an employee of the Authority or a person acting on behalf of the Authority for any act done or omitted to be done in the performance of his duties in good faith and in accordance with the law and regulations.

Delegation of Work to Another Party

    A task or part of a task among the work of the Authority may be delegated to another party under principles determined by the Board, in a manner that does not conflict with this Act or any other law. A task so delegated shall be delegated under an agreement made between the two parties for that purpose.

Chapter Six

Work of the Authority

Work of the Authority

    The work of the Authority is set out below:

(a) The telecommunications work specified in Article 17 of this Act;
(b) The spectrum management work specified in Article 18 of this Act;
(c) The postal sector management work specified in Article 19 of this Act;
(d) The work of regulating the infocommunications sector to the extent necessary to regulate the telecommunications sector as specified in Article 20 of this Act;
(e) The work specified to be done by the Authority under this Act or any other law; and
(f) The work necessary to be done to carry out or facilitate the work specified in this Article, and all other things necessary to be done to implement this Act.

Work related to Telecommunications

    The work of the Authority in relation to the telecommunications sector includes the following:

(a) To regulate telecommunications and radio communications in accordance with this Act;
(b) To provide advice and assistance required by the telecommunications industry;
(c) To encourage the development of the telecommunications sector of the Maldives and to promote the telecommunications industry;
(d) To investigate and take action on issues related to the telecommunications industry or telecommunications services or faced by persons who use or request the service;
(e) To establish, promote and develop a fair and competitive environment in the telecommunications industry of the Maldives;
(f) To stop anti-competitive practices in the telecommunications sector;
(g) To issue licenses to telecommunications service providers and to manage and maintain other related matters;
(h) To approve service prices and to control prices, to maintain related matters, and to maintain and manage all financial matters to be maintained in relation to the licenses of licensees;
(i) To determine the principles for the provision of services between service providers in relation to the services provided in the telecommunications industry and to enforce the maintenance of those principles;
(j) To manage and maintain the telecommunications numbering plan and all other technical and administrative matters related to addressing by electronic means in the provision of telecommunications services;
(k) To facilitate the interconnection of telecommunications services or networks and to resolve disputes arising in connection therewith;
(l) To inspect and approve telecommunications equipment used in the Maldives;
(m) To set the standards required for the provision of telecommunications services;
(n) To regulate the work done to establish satellite communications and to coordinate such matters with the International Telecommunication Union and relevant international associations or agencies;
(o) To urge and encourage parties active in the telecommunications industry to take adequate measures to protect the environment in the establishment of telecommunications facilities;
(p) To provide information and guidance to the public on matters related to the telecommunications industry;
(q) To coordinate the level of participation of the Maldives in the determination of international standards for telecommunications and to represent the Maldives in international forums on telecommunications.

Work related to Spectrum Management

    The work of the Authority in relation to spectrum management is set out below:

(a) To carry out all matters of planning, managing, and maintaining the radio frequency spectrum of the Maldives;
(b) To issue licenses for the use of radio communication equipment and spectrum, and to maintain related matters;
(c) To work to stop interference with radio frequencies, to investigate matters submitted in relation to such matters, and to take action.

Work related to Post

    The work of the Authority in relation to the postal sector is set out below:

(a) To register postal service providers in the Maldives;
(b) To monitor the quality of service provided by postal service providers;
(c) To provide advice and consultation that the Maldives wishes to give in the determination of international standards for regulating the postal sector, and to represent the Maldives in international forums on post.

Work related to Infocommunications

    The work of the Authority in relation to the infocommunications sector shall include the work necessary to be done to the extent necessary to regulate the infocommunications sector in matters directly related to the telecommunications sector. This includes the following:

(a) To regulate infocommunications matters within the scope defined in this Act;
(b) To provide advice and assistance required by the infocommunications industry in matters directly related to the telecommunications sector;
(c) To determine policies regarding the provision of infocommunications services directly related to the telecommunications sector.

Chapter Seven

Auditing and Reporting

Auditing

    The accounts of the Authority shall be audited once every year by an accountant acceptable to the Auditor General and appointed for that purpose by the Board.

Annual Report

    A report on the operations of the Authority for the past year, together with the audited accounts, shall be prepared by the Authority within 4 (four) months of the end of each financial year, submitted to the Board of Directors, and after being passed by the Board, submitted to the Minister. And a copy of that report shall be sent by the Minister to the People's Majlis.

Assessing and Maintaining Work

23.
(a) In addition to the annual report specified in Article 22 of this Act, a report shall be prepared by the Authority and submitted to the Minister, monitoring the work of licensees under this Act and the participants of the telecommunications and postal industries, and the infocommunications industry to the extent necessary for the telecommunications sector, and at the end of each financial year, on important matters noted in the assessment of the work, and in particular, taking into account the following matters. The report submitted to the Minister shall be submitted by the Minister to the People's Majlis.

(1) The level of satisfaction of the service recipient;
(2) The benefits to the service recipient; and
(3) The quality of service provided by the service providers.

(b) In carrying out the work specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the Authority may refer to the standards of practice in assessing the work of the telecommunications and postal industries, and the infocommunications industry to the extent necessary for the telecommunications sector, in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

(c) The matters to be monitored and reported by the Authority under subsection (a) of this Article include the following:

(1) The manner in which this Act is being implemented and enforced by service providers and other parties;
(2) The standard at which facilities and services are being provided by licensees;
(3) The level of satisfaction of service recipients with the services, and the level of complaints about those services;
(4) The fees and/or prices paid by service recipients for receiving the service;
(5) The extent to which the self-regulatory principles of the service providers in the telecommunications and postal industries, and the infocommunications industry to the extent necessary for the telecommunications sector, have been developed;
(6) The availability and quality of telecommunications services in all regions of the Maldives;
(7) The extent to which competition has been created in the telecommunications service, and the robustness of the measures taken to maintain that competition;
(8) The difficulties and obstacles encountered in the implementation of this Act; and
(9) Other matters that the Authority deems relevant to the matters stated above.

Chapter Eight

Policy Making and Minister's Direction

Responsibility for Policy Making

24.
(a) The Minister shall formulate policies on telecommunications and post in the Maldives, and on infocommunications to that extent in matters directly related to the telecommunications sector, in a manner that will achieve the objectives of this Act, and in a manner that does not conflict with any principle of this Act.

(b) When the Minister determines policies in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article, the Authority shall perform its responsibilities in accordance with those policies.

Minister's Direction to the Authority

25.
(a) If the Authority acts contrary to the policies established by the government regarding telecommunications, post and infocommunications in the performance of a responsibility that the Authority is required to perform under this Act or any other law, the Minister has the discretion to direct the Authority to rectify the matter.

(b) Directions that need to be given to the Authority regarding policies on telecommunications, post and infocommunications shall be given by a written document from the Minister.

(c) Unless otherwise specified in this Act or any other law, the Authority shall act in accordance with a direction from the date the Minister gives a direction under this Article, or from the date specified in that direction for commencing to act in accordance with that direction. And if no specific period is stated in that direction, the Authority shall continue to act as stated in that direction until that direction is revoked.

(d) Directions given by the Minister under this Article shall be recorded and maintained in a register by the Authority.

Chapter Nine

Complaint Handling

Statement of Reasons

26.
(a) If a person believes that his right has been infringed by a decision made by the Authority under the power conferred upon it by this Act, he may, within 30 (thirty) days of the Authority's decision, submit a request to the Authority to be given a statement of the reasons for making such a decision.

(b) A submission requesting a statement of reasons in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article shall be provided to the person who submitted the matter, within 30 (thirty) days of the Authority receiving it, with the reasons on which the decision was based and the matters considered in making that decision.

(c) The Authority is not obliged to give, publish or disclose a document stating the reasons on which a decision of the Authority is based to the parties affected by that decision, if giving, publishing or disclosing such a document may lead to the following circumstances:

(1) The information contained in that matter is information that the law permits to be kept secret; or
(2) It appears that it may obstruct a fair trial for another person; or
(3) The personal information of another person, even if that person is deceased, is disclosed.

(d) For the purpose of this Article, the phrase "decision of the Authority" includes actions taken by the Authority, directions of the Authority, orders made by the Authority, and decisions made in the enforcement of powers delegated to other parties by them.

(e) The manner of submitting a complaint to the Authority under this Article, and the procedures to be followed by the Authority in responding to such complaints, shall be stated in the regulations made under this Act.

Appeal

27.
(a) If the person to whom a written statement of reasons given by the Authority in accordance with Article 26 of this Act is addressed does not accept the reasons stated in that document, he may, within 30 (thirty) days of receiving that document, submit a request to the Minister to review the decision of the Authority again.

(b) If a submission is made to the Minister within the period specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the Minister shall review the decision of the Authority, taking into account the matters noted by the person who submitted the submission in that submission.

(c) Matters submitted to the Minister in accordance with this Article shall be heard by the Minister or a person or committee appointed by him for that purpose. In reviewing a matter under this Article, the person who submitted the matter or a person appointed by that person shall be given the opportunity to be present and speak in his defense.

(d) Matters submitted to the Minister in accordance with this Article shall be heard and decided within a maximum of 60 (sixty) days, and the decision made by the Minister regarding that matter shall be notified in writing to the person who submitted the matter and to the Authority. And the decision made by the Minister shall be published in the form of a report within 30 (thirty) days of making that decision.

(e) In deciding on a matter submitted to the Minister under this Article, the Minister has the power to direct a change or revocation of the decision made by the Authority regarding that matter, or to direct the Authority to take any other action.

(f) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of this Article, if a particular decision has been made by the Authority in accordance with the law, the Minister does not have the power to direct a change or revocation of that decision.

Submitting a Matter to Court

28.
(a) If the decision made by the Minister in accordance with Article 27 of this Act is not acceptable to the person who submitted the matter, that person has the right to submit the matter to court within 60 (sixty) days from the date of that decision.

(b) The right to submit a matter to court under subsection (a) of this Article is granted to any person only after the procedures specified in Article 26 and Article 27 of this Act have been completed.

Chapter Ten

Miscellaneous

Conflict of Interest

29.
(a) When the Authority considers a matter or issue in which any member of the Board of Directors has a personal interest or benefit or role, that member shall not participate in any way in the consideration or decision of that matter or issue. And even if it was not previously known that a matter being considered by the Authority is a matter or issue in which such an interest or benefit or role exists, upon becoming aware of it, that member shall, while notifying the Chairman of the Board, withdraw from considering that matter or issue and/or making the decisions that need to be made in relation to that matter or issue.

(b) No member of the Board shall, in the performance of his duties under this Act, seek or accept the advice of any person in the financial or industrial or agricultural or commercial and business administration fields of a person working in the telecommunications and postal sector, and in matters directly related to the telecommunications sector, to that extent, the infocommunications sector.

(c) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of this Article, this Article does not prevent the Authority or the Board from consulting and seeking the advice of advisors, consultants and experts appointed to advise the Authority or the Board of Directors.

(d) No member of the Board of Directors, or any employee of the Authority, shall, in the performance of his duties under this Act, in a manner that may be biased towards a particular party, accept any kind of gift, or anything that provides a benefit, in his own name, or in the name of a person to whom he is married, or in the name of his child, or in the name of a person with whom he has a business or financial relationship, or in the name of a child of such a person.

Confidentiality

30.
(a) Information received by members in their capacity as a member of the Board of Directors is information that must be kept confidential. Such information shall not be disclosed to any person except to a person to whom disclosure is required by law.

(b) Information received by an employee of the Authority in his capacity as an employee is information that must be kept confidential. Such information shall not be disclosed to any person except to a person to whom disclosure is required by law.

Seal of the Authority

    The Authority shall have an official seal. In the event that the Authority signs an agreement that is required by law to be in writing, the seal of the Authority shall be affixed to that document if the law states that the seal must be on that agreement. Every document to which the seal of the Authority is affixed shall be signed by a member or members of the Board of the Authority authorized for that purpose by the Authority.

Financial Matters

32.
(a) The funds required for the Authority to perform its responsibilities shall be disbursed to that Authority from the State Treasury under a budget passed by the People's Majlis each year. As such, on the advice of the Ministry, the Board of the Authority shall prepare the budget of the Authority, and after it is passed by the Board of the Authority, it shall be sent to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury to be included in the state budget in accordance with Law No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act) and the regulations made under that law.

(b) All accounts and all documents of the Authority shall be maintained in accordance with Law No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act).

Service Fee

    The Authority has the discretion to charge a service fee for the services it provides. The amount and manner in which a fee may be charged for a service so provided shall be stated in the regulations made by the Authority under this Act.

Making Regulations

34.
(a) Unless otherwise stated in this Act, all regulations that need to be made under this Act shall be made and implemented by the Authority.

(b) The regulations that need to be made under this Act shall be made and published in the Government Gazette within 6 (six) months of the commencement of this Act.

Commencement of the Act

    This Act shall come into force on the date on which 3 (three) months have elapsed from the date of its passing, ratification and publication in the Government Gazette.

Definitions

    Unless the context in which a phrase or word is used in this Act clearly indicates otherwise, the following phrases and words shall have the meanings given below to those phrases and words.

(a) "Authority" means the "Communications Authority of Maldives" established under Article 2 of this Act.

(b) "Minister" means the Minister to whom the President of the Republic has at that time assigned the responsibility of formulating policies on communication services and maintaining matters related to communication services.

(c) "Ministry" means the government ministry to which the responsibility of formulating policies on communication services and maintaining matters related to communication services is at that time assigned.

(d) "Spectrum" means all radio communication frequencies used to establish communications.

(e) "Telecommunication Numbering Plan" means the way in which the numbers used for telecommunications services are allocated and the principles for using the numbers.

(f) "Telecommunication" means the transmission, sending and receiving of any kind of sign, signal, writing, photograph, sound or any kind of intelligence through wire, or radio, or optical, or other electromagnetic systems.

(g) "Infocommunication" means the various technologies and services through which services are provided using information technology and telecommunications facilities.

(h) "Post" means the basic postal and other courier services used to send letters, post cards, parcels and other such items from one place to another.

(i) "Civil Service Act" means Law No. 5/2007 (Maldivian Civil Service Act), including the amendments made to that law.

(j) "Civil Service Commission" means the Commission referred to in Law No. 5/2007 (Maldivian Civil Service Act).

(k) "Telecommunications Industry" means the industries that include the following in the provision of telecommunications services:

(1) Providing service as a carrier;
(2) Providing service as a service provider;
(3) Providing a good or service in connection with a telecommunications service;
(4) Importing or manufacturing equipment required by the service recipient or other telecommunications equipment;
(5) Carrying out the work necessary in connection with the establishment, maintenance, and connection of a telecommunications network or telecommunications equipment to a telecommunications service.
(6) Providing service as a carrier.

(l) "International Telecommunication Union" means the U.N. agency that works on matters of information and communication technology.
