Law on Trees in Inhabited Islands

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This is the law concerning the planting and felling of trees and the ownership of trees on the inhabited islands of the Maldives, other than Malé.

(b) This law shall be cited as the "Law on Trees in Inhabited Islands."

Planting of Trees

2.
In inhabited islands, trees shall be planted in areas other than residential plots, waqf (endowment) lands, and lands allocated to various parties for different purposes, only after obtaining a permit from the Island Office in a manner prescribed by the Ministry of Atolls Administration, and in a location designated and shown by that office.

People's Trees

3.
(a) Upon the commencement of this Act, trees existing as state-owned (bandaara) trees on inhabited islands shall, from the date of commencement of this Act, be the people's trees.

(b) Upon the commencement of this Act, trees existing as the people's trees of an island, trees planted and grown as the people's trees of that island in locations determined by the Atoll Office of that atoll in a manner prescribed by the Ministry of Atolls Administration after the commencement of this Act, and all trees growing on that island, excluding privately owned trees of individuals, shall be the people's trees of that island.

Private Trees

4.
Trees planted in a residential plot received for housing, trees planted on land allocated to various parties for different purposes, trees that are legally or Sharia-compliant property at the time of receiving a residential plot, and trees planted and cultivated by an individual outside of their residential plot or outside the land allocated to them in accordance with Article 2 of this law shall be the trees of the person in whose name the plot is registered or the party to whom the land has been allocated. In any other place, it shall be the tree of the person who planted it.

Registration of Private Trees

5.
(a) In accordance with Article 2 of this law, privately owned trees planted and cultivated by individuals must be registered at the respective Island Office in a manner prescribed by the Ministry of Atolls Administration. For vegetables, fruits, or grain-yielding crops grown on agricultural land, the registration of the agricultural land itself shall be considered as registration under this article.

(b) Any issues concerning trees planted prior to the commencement of this Act in areas of inhabited islands other than residential plots and lands allocated to various parties for different purposes, and which have not been duly registered at the respective Island Office to establish ownership, must be submitted to the Island Office and the registration of such trees must be completed within a period of three years from the date of commencement of this Act.

(c) In registering trees as per subsection (b) of this article, any dispute arising over the ownership of a tree shall be settled by a court of law.

(d) Among the trees planted prior to the commencement of this Act in areas of inhabited islands other than residential plots and lands allocated to various parties for different purposes, any tree other than those which have been duly registered at the respective Island Office to establish ownership as per this article, and those which have been submitted to a court of law as per subsection (c) of this article and are pending a decision, shall, after the expiration of three years from the date of commencement of this Act, become people's trees, unless determined otherwise by a court.

Leasing, Terminating Leases, and Entrusting the Care of People's Trees

6.
The leasing of people's trees on inhabited islands, the termination of such leases with the parties to whom the trees were leased, and the entrusting of the care of people's trees to various parties and the termination of such arrangements shall be carried out by the Ministry of Atolls Administration or a party designated by the Ministry, in accordance with a regulation made by the Ministry of Atolls Administration.

Cultivation and Maintenance of People's Trees

7.
Parties that have leased people's trees on inhabited islands must cultivate and maintain those trees in accordance with a regulation made by the Ministry of Atolls Administration.

Felling of People's Trees

8.
A people's tree or a people's palm as mentioned in Article 3 of this law shall be felled only in accordance with a procedure determined by the Ministry of Atolls Administration, with the advice of the Ministry of Fisheries and Agriculture.

Cutting for Timber

9.
From among the people's trees on inhabited islands, only those species not prohibited from being cut for timber by the Ministry of Fisheries and Agriculture may be cut for timber. Furthermore, such trees shall be cut for timber only after obtaining a permit from the respective Island Office, with the consultation of the Ministry of Fisheries and Agriculture.

Authority to Designate Protected Trees

10.
The Ministry of Fisheries and Agriculture is vested with the authority to identify trees that are over 50 years old from among the trees that have grown and are growing on inhabited islands, and trees that are deemed necessary to be preserved to prevent their species from becoming scarce in the Maldives, designate such trees as protected trees, and formulate regulations on how to treat such trees.

Prohibited Acts Concerning Trees

11.
The following acts concerning trees on inhabited islands are prohibited:

(a) For any person, other than those appointed and authorized by the government for the purpose, to cut, carve, remove, or add to any number, mark, or seal placed on a tree by the government.

(b) When felling palm trees located outside of residential plots, to fell them in any manner other than uprooting them, unless otherwise determined by the government for the protection of the environment.

(c) To make an incision (furo jehun or vakarah jehun) to check for a hollow trunk (vakaru) when felling people's trees.

(d) To cut for timber any trees or wood from species prohibited from being cut for timber by the Ministry of Fisheries and Agriculture.

(e) To fell trees designated as protected trees by the Ministry of Fisheries and Agriculture, or to commit any act that would cause harm to such trees.

Penalty

12.
(a) If any person commits an act prohibited under Article 11 of this law, the penalty shall be a fine not exceeding 5,000/- Rufiyaa, or banishment or house arrest for a period not exceeding six months.

(b) Except for the offenses for which penalties are specified in subsection (a) of this article, the penalty for any person who commits an act in violation of this law shall be a fine not exceeding 1,000/- Rufiyaa.

Formulation of Regulations

13.
Regulations that need to be made under this law, which are not explicitly stated in this law to be made by a specific authority, shall be made and implemented by a party or parties designated by the President of the Republic.

Repealed Laws

14.
Upon the commencement of this Act, Law No. 7/70 (Fura-bandaara Lakudeege Ganoonu 1970) and Law No. 5/92 (Dhivehiraajjeyge Meehun-ulhey Rah-rashugai Ruk-gas Indumuge Ganoonu) are hereby repealed.
