Law on Taking Measures to Protect the Ozone Layer

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This is the law concerning the reduction and cessation of the import and use in the Maldives of chemical substances that harm the ozone layer, equipment containing such chemical substances, chemical substances used as substitutes for these chemical substances, and equipment containing those substitute chemical substances.

(b) This law shall be cited as the "Law on Taking Measures to Protect the Ozone Layer".

Purpose

    The purpose of this law is to achieve the following:

(a) To reduce and stop the potential harm to the environment from chemical substances that damage the ozone layer and chemical substances used as substitutes for such chemical substances;

(b) To reduce and stop the import and use in the Maldives of chemical substances that damage the ozone layer and equipment containing such chemical substances;

(c) To reduce and stop the import and use in the Maldives of chemical substances used as substitutes for chemical substances that damage the ozone layer and equipment containing such chemical substances; and

(d) To act in accordance with treaties and agreements ratified by the Maldives regarding the protection of the ozone layer.

Primacy of this Law

    Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any other law, this law shall be given primacy in determining offenses and penalties for an offense prescribed in this law.

Prohibited Chemical Substances and Equipment Containing Such Chemical Substances

4.
(a) The chemical substances specified in Schedule 1 of this law are prohibited from being imported into the Maldives.

(b) Equipment containing the chemical substances specified in Schedule 1 of this law are prohibited from being imported into the Maldives.

Controlled Chemical Substances and Equipment Containing Such Chemical Substances

5.
(a) The chemical substances specified in Schedule 2 of this law are controlled for import into the Maldives. These chemical substances may be imported into the Maldives only after obtaining a permit from the Ministry.

(b) Equipment containing the chemical substances specified in Schedule 2 of this law are prohibited from being imported into the Maldives from 31 May 2016 onwards.

Chemical Substances Used as Substitutes for Prohibited and Controlled Chemical Substances

    Chemical substances used as substitutes for chemical substances prohibited and controlled from being imported into the Maldives under this law may be imported into the Maldives with a permit from the Ministry.

Other Permits

    If a chemical substance specified in Article 5 and Article 6 of this law requires a permit from another government ministry under another law for its import, that chemical substance shall be imported only after obtaining the permit from that ministry in addition to the Ministry.

Determining the Quantity and Importers

8.
(a) The quantity of chemical substances specified in Schedule 2 of this law that can be imported into the Maldives and the parties who can import them shall be determined by the Ministry.

(b) The work to reduce and stop the import and use in the Maldives of the chemical substances specified in Schedule 2 of this law shall be carried out in accordance with Schedule 3 of this law.

Maintaining Statistics

    Parties that have obtained a permit to import the chemical substances specified in Schedule 2 of this law must share information regarding their transactions related to the chemical substances specified in that schedule with the Ministry every year.

Taking Action

10.
(a) It is an offense to import anything prohibited from being imported into the Maldives under this law.

(b) It is an offense for any party, other than those authorized by the Ministry, to import a chemical substance controlled under this law.

(c) If a chemical substance specified in Schedule 1 of this law is imported, a fine of between MVR 1,000 (one thousand) and MVR 8,000 (eight thousand) shall be imposed for each kilogram imported.

(d) If equipment containing a chemical substance specified in Schedule 1 of this law is imported, the importing party shall be fined an amount between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand).

(e) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in subsection (b) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 1,000 (one thousand) and MVR 8,000 (eight thousand) for each kilogram imported.

(f) If equipment containing a chemical substance specified in Schedule 2 of this law is imported after the date specified in Article 5 (b) of this law, the importing party shall be fined an amount between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand).

(g) If parties authorized to import the chemical substances specified in Schedule 2 of this law for that year import more than the permitted quantity, the following measures shall be taken against them:
(1) A fine of between MVR 1,000 (one thousand) and MVR 8,000 (eight thousand) for each kilogram imported in excess of the permitted quantity; and
(2) Not being granted a permit to import the chemical substances specified in Schedule 2 of this law for a period of the next 3 (three) to 5 (five) years.

(h) If an item specified in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article is imported, the party that imported it shall bear all costs incurred in its disposal.

Enforcement and Awareness

11.
(a) This law shall be enforced by the Ministry.

(b) The Ministry shall carry out public awareness activities in relation to this law.

Schedule

    The schedules to this law are a part of this law. This law is complete with the inclusion of these schedules.

Formulation of Regulations

13.
(a) Unless otherwise specified in this law, all regulations and procedures required to be made under this law shall be made and administered by the Ministry.

(b) The regulations and procedures required to be made under this law shall be made by the Ministry and published in the Government Gazette within 3 (three) months from the date this law comes into effect.

Commencement of this Law

    This law shall come into effect on the date of its passing, ratification, and publication in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

Definitions

    Unless the context in which a phrase or word is used in this law explicitly indicates otherwise, the following phrases and words shall have the meanings given below:

(a) "Permit" refers to the document issued by the Ministry, which includes the conditions imposed on the parties importing chemical substances that harm the ozone layer and chemical substances used as their substitutes, indicating that permission has been granted to import and sell these items.

(b) "Ozone Layer" refers to the layer located between 10 (ten) kilometers and 50 (fifty) kilometers above the ground. This layer is mainly composed of a substance made up of three oxygen atoms.

(c) "Chemical substances that damage the ozone layer" refers to a substance designated as a chemical substance that damages the ozone layer by an international treaty.

(d) "Equipment containing chemical substances that damage the ozone layer" refers to items or equipment that use a substance designated as a chemical substance that damages the ozone layer by an international treaty.

(e) "Chemical substances used as a substitute for a chemical substance that damages the ozone layer" refers to a substance used as a substitute for a substance designated as a chemical substance that damages the ozone layer by an international treaty.

(f) "Equipment containing chemical substances used as a substitute for a chemical substance that damages the ozone layer" refers to items or equipment that use a substance used as a substitute for a substance designated as a chemical substance that damages the ozone layer by an international treaty.

(g) "Ministry" refers to the government ministry entrusted with the responsibility of implementing environmental policies at any given time.

(h) "Treaty" refers to the "Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer," which was ratified in Montreal, Canada on 16 September 1987.

Schedule 1
Schedule 2
Schedule 3
