Law on the Foreign Service of the Republic of Maldives

Chapter One

Introduction

Preamble and Name

1.
(a) This is the law to establish a separate service in the name of the Foreign Service to conduct and implement the foreign policy of the Republic of Maldives, and to state the structure of that service, the principles of conducting the Foreign Service, and the principles relating to the employees of that service.

(b) This Law shall be cited as the "Foreign Service Act of the Republic of Maldives".

Purpose of the Law

2. The purposes of this Law are set out below.

(a) To establish a professional Foreign Service to assist the President in upholding the independence and territorial integrity of the Maldives, and in increasing respect for the national sovereignty of the Maldives in the international community, while fully discharging the responsibilities of the Maldives to the international community.

(b) To pave the way for the establishment of a complete Foreign Service comprising skilled, educated, and experienced individuals to formulate and implement the foreign policy of the Maldives.

(c) To specify the qualifications for key positions within the Foreign Service and the procedures for appointing and dismissing individuals from those positions.

(d) To specify the structure of the Foreign Service employees and the administrative arrangements related to their employment.

(e) To form a Foreign Service Advisory Board to provide the necessary advice for carrying out matters related to the foreign policy of the Maldives in a robust manner.

(f) To establish a Foreign Service Institute to conduct education and training for the employees of the Foreign Service and to specify the principles for the administration of that Institute.

(g) As foreign relations are one of the most important links connecting the Maldives with the outside world, to pave the way for organizing and arranging the foreign affairs of the Maldives to a standard that will be accepted with confidence by the Maldivian people and the international community.

Chapter Two

The Foreign Service of the Republic of Maldives

Establishment of the Foreign Service

3.
(a) With the commencement of this Law, a separate service, not included in the Maldivian Civil Service, is hereby established under the name of the "Foreign Service of the Republic of Maldives".

(b) All matters of the Foreign Service established under subsection (a) of this section shall be conducted in accordance with this Law and the regulations made hereunder.

Purposes of the Foreign Service

4. The purposes of the Foreign Service are set out below.

(a) To assist the President in the work of upholding the independence and territorial integrity of the Maldives and increasing respect for the national sovereignty of the Maldives in the international community.

(b) To assist the President in determining, conducting, and monitoring the foreign policy of the Maldives.

(c) To identify opportunities available to the Maldives in the international arena, to seek and find ways to advance the national interest of the Maldives, and to advise and assist the President in carrying out such matters.

(d) To provide the necessary special training, skills, and experience to the employees of the Foreign Service to achieve the purposes of this Law, and to form, maintain, and advance a professional Foreign Service.

Composition of the Foreign Service

5. The Foreign Service is composed of the Ministry, the diplomatic missions of the Republic of Maldives, consular posts, and the Foreign Service established under this Law.

Chapter Three

Foreign Policy

Determination of Foreign Policy

6. The President is the supreme authority in determining, conducting, and monitoring the foreign policy of the Republic of Maldives.

Responsibilities of the Minister

7. The Minister is the chief executive responsible for conducting all affairs of the Foreign Service in accordance with this Law and the regulations made hereunder, as directed by the President. The responsibilities of the Minister in conducting all affairs of the Foreign Service under this Law are set out below.

(a) To assist and advise the President in determining, conducting, and monitoring the foreign policy of the Maldives, as stated in section 6 of this Law.

(b) To assist and advise the President in the work of upholding the independence and territorial integrity of the Maldives and increasing respect for the national sovereignty of the Maldives in the international community, as stated in Article 115(r) of the Constitution.

(c) Unless otherwise expressly provided in a law or an international treaty to which the Maldives is a party, to represent the Maldivian State in its dealings with foreign states and international organizations.

(d) To advise the President on the recognition of foreign states by the Maldivian State and the withdrawal of such recognition, on the establishment of diplomatic relations with foreign countries by the Maldives, and on the severance of relations with a country with which diplomatic relations have been established, and to implement the President's decision.

(e) To advise the President on the signing of agreements with foreign countries and international organizations by the Maldives and on withdrawal from such agreements, and to implement the President's decision.

(f) To advise the President on the Maldives becoming a party to international treaties and on the Maldives withdrawing from a treaty to which it is a party, and on the Maldives joining international organizations and withdrawing from an organization of which it is a member, and to implement the President's decision.

(g) To advise the President on the acceptance by the Maldivian government of ambassadors appointed to the Maldives by foreign countries and other entities, and to implement the President's decision.

(h) To robustly manage the Ministry, the diplomatic missions and consular posts of the Republic of Maldives, and the entire Foreign Service.

Responsibilities of the Ministry

8. The responsibilities of the Ministry are set out below.

(a) To practically assist the Minister in discharging the responsibilities stated as the Minister's responsibilities in section 7 of this Law.

(b) Unless otherwise expressly provided in a law or an international treaty to which the Maldives is a party, to act as an intermediary in the dealings of the Maldivian State with foreign states and international organizations.

(c) To conduct and advance the Foreign Service.

(d) To ensure that the diplomatic missions and consular posts of the Republic of Maldives are conducted in a manner that achieves the purposes stated in this Law as their purposes.

(e) To grant permission for the establishment of diplomatic missions, consular posts, and other such offices in the Maldives by foreign countries, and offices established in the Maldives by international organizations, and to formulate and implement regulations on the activities of such missions, consular posts, and offices in the Maldives.

Chapter Four

Foreign Secretary

Foreign Secretary

9.
(a) There shall be a Foreign Secretary to assist the Minister in the day-to-day conduct of all affairs of the Foreign Service, as provided in this Law and the regulations made hereunder.

(b) The Foreign Secretary is the most senior employee of the Foreign Service. All other employees of the Foreign Service, and employees from outside the Foreign Service who hold positions in the Foreign Service, shall work under the guidance of the Foreign Secretary.

(c) The Foreign Secretary shall be accountable to the Minister in the discharge of his or her responsibilities under this Law and the regulations formulated hereunder.

Appointment and Removal of the Foreign Secretary

10.
(a) A person shall be appointed to and removed from the post of Foreign Secretary by the President on the advice of the Minister.

(b) The term of office of the Foreign Secretary is 3 (three) years from the date of his or her appointment to the post.

(c) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of this section, this section does not prevent a person appointed to the post of Foreign Secretary from being appointed to that post for a further term of 3 (three) years.

(d) If a person has been appointed to the post of Foreign Secretary at the time of the commencement of this Law, that person shall be deemed to be a person appointed in accordance with this Law. And in that case, the provisions of this Law regarding the responsibilities of the Foreign Secretary shall apply to the person holding that post.

Qualifications of the Foreign Secretary

11. A person appointed to the post of Foreign Secretary shall be a person from among the employees of the Foreign Service serving in the post of "Secretary" of the Executive Staff category as provided in section 35(n)(2) of this Law, who has the experience of the Foreign Service and the ability to discharge the responsibilities of the post. In addition, he or she must be a person who has worked and gained experience in the Ministry for at least 10 (ten) years.

Responsibilities of the Foreign Secretary

12. The responsibilities of the Foreign Secretary include the following.

(a) To provide the necessary advice and assistance to the Minister in matters stated as the responsibilities of the Minister in section 7 of this Law.

(b) To advise the Minister on the conduct of the Foreign Service, all matters relating to employees, and the organization of all matters relating to the conduct of the foreign policy of the Maldives, and to conduct and advance the Foreign Service in accordance with the Minister's instructions and in accordance with this Law and the regulations made hereunder.

(c) To assist the Minister in formulating and implementing the procedures to be followed in conducting the foreign policy of the Maldives.

(d) To make the employees of the Foreign Service a group that works in a manner that achieves the purposes stated in section 4 of this Law.

(e) To formulate and implement, with the advice of the Minister, the standards and procedures required to maintain and develop the quality of service of the employees of the Foreign Service.

(f) To formulate the structure of the Foreign Service, with the advice of the Minister, in a manner that achieves the purpose of the Foreign Service, and to determine the work to be done by the various parts of the Foreign Service.

(g) To advise and assist the Minister in matters for which the Minister is accountable under the Constitution and laws of the Maldives in the implementation of foreign policies.

(h) To formulate and implement, with the advice of the Minister, the rules and procedures to be followed by the employees of the Foreign Service and all employees holding positions in the Foreign Service.

Chapter Five

Ambassadors

Ambassadors

13.
(a) Ambassadors are persons appointed by the President in accordance with Article 115(d) of the Constitution to represent the Maldivian State in foreign countries and international organizations.[1]

(b) Employees of the Foreign Service and persons from outside the Foreign Service may be appointed to the post of Ambassador.

(c) The term of office of a person appointed to the post of Ambassador is 3 (three) years. The President has the power to extend that term for a period not exceeding 1 (one) year.

Appointment of Ambassadors

14.
(a) Ambassadors shall be appointed in accordance with this section.

(b) The names proposed by the President for appointment as Ambassadors shall be submitted to the People's Majlis for its consultation in accordance with Article 115(d) of the Constitution.[1]

(c) When the People's Majlis, by a majority of the members present and voting at a sitting of the People's Majlis, resolves that it is agreeable to the name or names submitted by the President under subsection (b) of this section, that person or persons shall be appointed as Ambassador by the President.[1]

Qualifications of Ambassadors

15. Persons appointed as Ambassadors must meet the following qualifications.

(a) Be a Maldivian citizen and not a citizen of any other country.

(b) Possess the level of education, experience, and ability to represent the Maldivian State and to perform the duties and responsibilities of the post of Ambassador.

(c) Not be a permanent resident of the country to which he or she is appointed as Ambassador; permanent resident shall be determined in accordance with the standards applied for granting permanent residency to citizens of other countries under the relevant law of that country.

(d) Be a person who has completed 30 (thirty) years of age.

(e) Not be a person holding a position elected under the Constitution or a law.

(f) Be a person holding one of the positions specified in sections 41(a)(1) and 41(a)(2) of this Law.

(g) If the person appointed to the post of Ambassador is an employee of the Foreign Service, he or she must be a person holding a position specified from section 35(n)(1) to (4) of this Law.

Completion of Procedures

16. For the appointment of a person to the post of Ambassador, in addition to seeking the consultation of the People's Majlis as provided in section 14 of this Law, the procedures to be completed under the "Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations 1961" shall be completed in the manner prescribed in the regulation on diplomatic missions and consular posts of the Republic of Maldives formulated under this Law.

Responsibilities of Ambassadors

17.
(a) The main responsibilities of Ambassadors are to conduct the mission in a manner that achieves the matters specified in section 22 of this Law to be done by diplomatic missions, and to carry out the matters stated in the regulation on diplomatic missions and consular posts of the Republic of Maldives to be done by missions, in accordance with the advice of the Minister. In addition, the responsibilities of Ambassadors include carrying out the matters specified in section 43 of this Law to be done by persons holding positions in the Foreign Service.

(b) Ambassadors shall be accountable to the Minister in relation to their duties and responsibilities.

Resignation of Ambassadors

18.
(a) If an Ambassador wishes to resign, he or she may resign by a letter addressed to the President.

(b) Notwithstanding the submission of the letter of resignation under subsection (a) of this section, the Ambassador shall be removed from the post of Ambassador by a letter from the President accepting the resignation. Until the President accepts the resignation, he or she shall continue to discharge his or her responsibilities.

Recall and Removal of Ambassadors from Office

19.
(a) Ambassadors appointed to diplomatic missions shall be recalled and removed from office by the President.

(b) Ambassadors appointed from outside the Foreign Service shall resign from the post of Ambassador in the event of a change of government. In such a resignation, the procedure in section 18(b) of this Law shall also be followed.

(c) If an Ambassador is an employee of the Foreign Service, even if that Ambassador resigns in accordance with section 18 of this Law or is recalled in accordance with subsection (a) of this section, he or she shall not be deemed to have been removed from the post he or she held in the Foreign Service.

Chapter Six

Diplomatic Missions of the Republic of Maldives

Diplomatic Missions

20.
(a) The diplomatic missions of the Republic of Maldives are places established in accordance with the "Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations 1961" to represent the Maldives in the country or organization to which the mission is accredited, to advance the national interest of the Maldives, to find and expand opportunities for the benefit and advantage of the Maldives, and to provide facilities for Maldivians visiting and residing in the country where the mission is located.

(b) The Minister is empowered to establish centers as part of the mission to promote the culture of the Maldives in the countries where diplomatic missions are established. The procedures to be followed in establishing such centers shall be specified in the regulation on diplomatic missions and consular posts of the Republic of Maldives formulated under this Law.

(c) The diplomatic missions of the Republic of Maldives are administratively part of the Ministry.

Establishment and Closure of Missions

21. The decisions to establish and close diplomatic missions shall be made by the President. The procedures to be followed and the formalities to be completed in establishing or closing a diplomatic mission shall be specified in the regulation on diplomatic missions and consular posts of the Republic of Maldives formulated under this Law.

Responsibilities of Missions

22.
(a) The responsibilities of missions include facilitating assistance, cooperation, and training for administrative, consular, diplomatic, political, economic, military, and other personnel serving in the foreign sector, advancing the foreign policy and interests of the Maldives, assisting Maldivians in matters they face in foreign countries, and carrying out all necessary work to support the work of the Ministry. Such responsibilities and duties shall be specified in the regulation on diplomatic missions and consular posts of the Republic of Maldives made under this Law.

(b) In a situation where the Maldivian State has to deal with any party in a country where a diplomatic mission of the Republic of Maldives is established or accredited, or with an organization to which a mission is accredited, it shall be done through that mission. The procedures to be followed in carrying out such dealings shall be specified in the regulation on diplomatic missions and consular posts of the Republic of Maldives formulated under this Law.

Head of Mission and Chargé d'affaires

23.
(a) The Head of Mission of each diplomatic mission of the Republic of Maldives shall be an Ambassador appointed by the President to the country or organization to which the mission is accredited, as provided in Article 115(d) of the Constitution.

(b) In a situation where there is no Ambassador as the Head of Mission of a mission for any reason, the Chargé d'affaires of that mission shall be the Deputy Head of Mission appointed by the Minister in the manner prescribed in the regulation on diplomatic missions and consular posts of the Republic of Maldives. And in a situation where there is no Deputy Head of Mission, the Chargé d'affaires of that mission shall be an employee of the Foreign Service appointed by the Minister in the manner prescribed in the regulation on diplomatic missions and consular posts of the Republic of Maldives.

Chapter Seven

Consular Posts of the Republic of Maldives

Consular Posts

24. The consular posts of the Republic of Maldives are places established in specific areas of foreign countries to advance the national interest of the Maldives, to find and expand opportunities for the benefit and advantage of the Maldives, and to provide facilities for Maldivians visiting and residing in the area where the consular post is located.

Categories of Consular Posts

25. The consular posts of the Republic of Maldives are divided into the following 2 (two) categories.

(a) Consular Post; and

(b) Honorary Consular Post.

Consular Post

26.
(a) Consular posts shall be established and closed by the President on the advice of the Minister. The procedures to be followed and the formalities to be completed in establishing or closing a consular post shall be specified in the regulation on diplomatic missions and consular posts of the Republic of Maldives formulated under this Law.

(b) Consular posts and other places established under them are administratively part of the Ministry.

Responsibility of the Consular Post

27. The responsibilities of consular posts include facilitating the consular services to be provided to Maldivians living abroad, expanding and strengthening those services, and carrying out all necessary work to support the work of the Ministry. The responsibilities and duties of consular posts include, in addition to the matters specified in section 24 of this Law, the matters specified in the regulation on diplomatic missions and consular posts of the Republic of Maldives formulated under this Law.

Head of Consular Post

28.
(a) The Head of Consular Post, as the most senior official in charge of each consular post of the Republic of Maldives, shall be appointed and recalled by the Minister in the manner prescribed in the regulation on sending persons on postings and recalling them, formulated under this Law.

(b) A Consul General or a Consul may be appointed to the post of Head of Consular Post.

(c) Only employees of the Foreign Service shall be appointed as Head of Consular Post.

(d) If the post of Head of Consular Post becomes vacant for any reason, that post shall be temporarily filled by the most senior employee of the Foreign Service at that time, appointed by the Minister in the manner prescribed in the regulation on diplomatic missions and consular posts of the Republic of Maldives formulated under this Law.

Responsibility of the Head of Consular Post

29. The responsibilities of the Head of Consular Post are to conduct the consular posts in a manner that achieves the matters specified in section 27 of this Law, and the matters stated as the responsibilities and duties of the Head of Consular Post in the regulation on diplomatic missions and consular posts of the Republic of Maldives formulated under this Law.

Honorary Consular Post

30.
(a) Honorary consular posts of the Republic of Maldives shall be established and closed by the President on the advice of the Minister.

(b) The "Head of Honorary Consular Post" of an honorary consular post shall be an "Honorary Consul General" or an "Honorary Consul". And persons shall be appointed to and removed from that post by the Minister in the manner prescribed in the regulation on diplomatic missions and consular posts of the Republic of Maldives formulated under this Law.

(c) An honorary consular post is not administratively part of the Ministry.

(d) No salary, remuneration, or financial benefit shall be paid from the State budget to the "Head of Honorary Consular Post" of an honorary consular post, or to any employee of that post.

(e) Notwithstanding subsection (d) of this section, this Law does not prevent the State from paying for an expense incurred by an honorary consular post on a written instruction from the Ministry, on the condition that the money is repaid to the State.

Responsibility of the Honorary Consular Post

31. The responsibilities of honorary consular posts are the matters stated as the responsibilities of honorary consular posts in the regulation on diplomatic missions and consular posts of the Republic of Maldives formulated under this Law.

Responsibility of the Head of Honorary Consular Post

32. The responsibilities of the "Head of Honorary Consular Post" appointed under section 30(b) of this Law include achieving the matters stated in section 27 of this Law to be done by consular posts, and the matters stated as the responsibilities and duties of the "Head of Honorary Consular Post" in the regulation on diplomatic missions and consular posts of the Republic of Maldives formulated under this Law.

Chapter Eight

Positions and Employees of the Foreign Service

Formation of the Foreign Service

33.
(a) The Foreign Service referred to in section 5 of this Law shall be formed within 90 (ninety) days of the commencement of this Law.

(b) The formation of the Foreign Service means the appointment of persons who meet the qualifications specified in sections 42 and 63(a) and (n)(1) to (5) of this Law to the positions specified in sections 35 and 36 of this Law.

Composition of the Foreign Service

34. The Foreign Service of the Republic of Maldives is divided into the following 2 (two) categories of positions.

(a) Executive Service Staff; and

(b) General Service Staff.

Executive Service Staff

35.
(a) The Executive Service Staff category of the Foreign Service consists of employees of the Foreign Service who meet the qualifications specified in section 42(b) of this Law.

(b) The employees included in the Executive Service Staff category are divided into "Executive Staff" and "Professional Staff".

(c) The "Executive Staff" category referred to in subsection (b) of this section includes the following positions.
(1) Foreign Secretary;
(2) Secretary;
(3) Additional Secretary;
(4) Joint Secretary;
(5) Senior Under Secretary.

(d) The "Professional Staff" category referred to in subsection (b) of this section includes the following positions.
(1) Director General;
(2) Deputy Director General;
(3) Director;
(4) Deputy Director;
(5) Assistant Director.

General Service Staff

36.
(a) The General Service Staff category is a category consisting of administrative employees of the Foreign Service. This category shall include employees of the Foreign Service who meet the qualifications specified in section 42(a) of this Law.

(b) The General Service Staff category referred to in subsection (a) of this section includes the following positions.
(1) Chief General Service Officer;
(2) Chief Desk Officer;
(3) Senior Desk Officer;
(4) Desk Officer;
(5) Deputy Desk Officer;
(6) Assistant Administrative Officer.

Recruitment of Additional Employees

37.
(a) In addition to the positions established under sections 35 and 36 of this Law, if the Minister believes that additional positions are required for the administration of the Ministry, the Minister has the discretion to recruit additional employees under the regulation on the employees of the Foreign Service made under this Law.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, employees shall be added to or removed from the Foreign Service after submitting a request to the President's Office and obtaining approval.

Positions in Diplomatic Missions

38. The diplomatic missions of the Republic of Maldives shall have positions divided into the following 3 (three) categories.

(a) The first category of positions includes the following.
(1) Ambassador;
(2) Minister-Counsellor;
(3) Counsellor.

(b) The second category of positions includes the following.
(1) Service Attaché;
(2) First Secretary;
(3) Second Secretary;
(4) Third Secretary.

(c) The third category of positions includes the following.
(1) Attaché;
(2) General Service category positions.

Positions in Consular Posts

39. The consular posts of the Republic of Maldives shall have positions divided into the following 3 (three) categories.

(a) The first category of positions includes the following.
(1) Consul General or Consul;
(2) Vice Consul.

(b) The second category of positions includes the following.
(1) First Secretary;
(2) Second Secretary;
(3) Third Secretary.

(c) The third category of positions includes the following.
(1) Attaché;
(2) General Service category positions.

Local Staff of Missions and Consular Posts

40. Employees may be appointed as local staff to carry out the administrative work of diplomatic missions and consular posts in the manner prescribed in the regulation on diplomatic missions and consular posts of the Republic of Maldives formulated under this Law.

Employees of the Foreign Service and Employees Holding Positions in the Foreign Service

41.
(a) After the commencement of this Law, in addition to the Minister, only the following employees shall be employed in the Ministry, the diplomatic missions of the Republic of Maldives, and general consular posts.
(1) Employees appointed to the posts of "Minister of State", "Ambassador-at-Large", and "Deputy Minister" to work under the advice and guidance of the Minister to strengthen and conduct the work of the Ministry;
(2) Employees seconded for a specific period from another government institution to a position among the positions specified in sections 35(n) and (r) of this Law, in the manner prescribed in the regulation on employees formulated under this Law;
(3) Employees of the Foreign Service formed in accordance with section 33(b) of this Law; and
(4) Employees appointed from outside the Foreign Service for a specific period to perform a specific responsibility, in a manner prescribed in the regulation on employees formulated under this Law, other than the employees specified from subsection (a)(1) to (3) of this section.

(b) The employees referred to in subsections (a)(1) and (a)(4) of this section shall be appointed in a manner not exceeding 20% (twenty percent) of the total number of employees of the Foreign Service.

Qualifications for Positions in the Foreign Service

42. The employees of the Foreign Service must meet the qualifications specified in this section.

(a) General Service Staff must meet the following qualifications.
(1) Possess the educational level and experience stated in the regulation on employees formulated under this Law to be required for General Service Staff;
(2) Be a Maldivian citizen and not a citizen or permanent resident of another country;
(3) Be a person with no criminal record;
(4) Not be a person holding a position elected or appointed under the Constitution or a law.

(b) Executive Service Staff must meet the following qualifications.
(1) Meet the qualifications specified from subsection (a)(1) to (4) of this section;
(2) Have obtained a first degree, or an equivalent or higher qualification;
(3) Have passed the Foreign Service examination held in the manner prescribed in the regulation on employees formulated under this Law;
(4) If an employee is an "Executive Staff" as specified in section 35(n) of this Law, he or she must have served in the Professional Staff category specified in subsection (r) of that section for a period specified in the regulation on employees formulated under this Law.

(c) The criteria for determining permanent residency in another country shall be specified in the regulation on employees formulated under this Law.

Responsibilities of Employees

43. The responsibilities of the employees of the Foreign Service and employees from outside the Foreign Service include the following.

(a) To assist the Minister and the Ministry in discharging the responsibilities specified in sections 7 and 8 of this Law;

(b) To carry out the matters specified as the responsibilities and duties of persons working in the Foreign Service in the regulation on employees formulated under this Law.

Matters Relating to the Employment of Employees

44.
(a) The appointment of employees to positions in the Foreign Service, the arrangement of jobs, the granting of promotions, the transfer of jobs, the termination of employment, retirement from service, the assignment of work, the determination of the working hours of employees, the granting of leave to employees, the taking of disciplinary action, the resolution of difficulties faced by employees, and all other matters relating to employees shall be conducted in accordance with this Law and the regulation on employees formulated hereunder.

(b) In conducting the matters specified in subsection (a) of this section, the advice of the Foreign Service Advisory Board specified in section 60 of this Law shall be sought.

(c) Notwithstanding section 32 of the Employment Act, the working hours of employees holding positions in the Foreign Service and the granting of leave to those employees shall be in accordance with the regulation on employees formulated under this Law. This shall be done in a manner not inconsistent with the fundamental principles specified in sections 3 and 4 of the Employment Act.

Appointment of Persons to Positions in the Foreign Service

45.
(a) Except for the post of Foreign Secretary, persons who meet the qualifications specified in section 42 of this Law shall be appointed to the positions of the Executive Staff category by the Minister, in accordance with the regulation on employees formulated under this Law.

(b) Persons who meet the qualifications specified in section 42 of this Law shall be appointed to the positions of the General Service Staff category by the Foreign Secretary, on the advice of the Minister, in accordance with the regulation on employees formulated under this Law.

Granting of Promotions

46.
(a) Except for the Foreign Secretary, promotions and job advancements shall be given to the employees of the Executive Staff category by the Minister, in the manner prescribed in the regulation on employees formulated under this Law and on the advice of the Foreign Service Advisory Board.

(b) Promotions and job advancements shall be given to the employees of the General Service Staff category specified in this Law by the Foreign Secretary, in a manner decided by the Minister, in accordance with the regulation on employees formulated under this Law and with the advice of the Foreign Service Advisory Board.

Retirement from Service

47.
(a) The retirement age for employees of the Foreign Service is 65 (sixty-five) years.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, if an employee over the age of 55 (fifty-five) years wishes to retire from service voluntarily, that employee may be retired from service in the manner prescribed in the regulation on employees formulated under this Law.

(c) Benefits shall be provided to employees retired from service in accordance with subsections (a) and (b) of this section in accordance with the standards and principles determined by the National Pay Commission under the State Pay Policy Law.[2]

Code of Conduct

48. The conduct of the employees of the Foreign Service and employees from outside the Foreign Service holding positions in the Foreign Service shall be in accordance with the Code of Conduct formulated under this Law. And none of them shall do any of the following.

(a) Misuse diplomatic immunity;

(b) Unless with the written permission of the Minister, as provided in the regulation on employees formulated under this Law, for as long as he or she remains in the post, to be practically involved in running a business, to be involved in other work to earn an income, to do any other work that generates an income, and to hold any other employment;

(c) Unless as provided in the regulation on employees formulated under this Law and as directed by the Minister, for as long as he or she remains in the post, to publicly publish in any form, in any place, and under any name, any information or even an opinion related to the policy of the State;

(d) Unless in the manner provided in this Law and in the general regulation of the Foreign Service formulated under this Law, to disclose or give information to any person regarding the foreign policy of the Maldives or a matter occurring in the Foreign Service;

(e) Unless in a manner provided in the general regulation of the Foreign Service formulated under this Law, to accept any gift, or anything that could be considered a gift;

(f) To be a member of a political party;

(g) To use a power or information obtained by virtue of his or her position, whether directly or indirectly, to influence or exert influence on the political activities of any person;

(h) To show any political bias in the discharge of the responsibilities of his or her position, or in providing service by virtue of the position.

Confidentiality

49. Information obtained by the employees of the Foreign Service and employees from outside the Foreign Service holding positions in the Foreign Service by virtue of their position is information that must be kept as a state secret. Unless in a manner provided in the general regulation of the Foreign Service formulated under this Law and as permitted by law, it is an offense to disclose any amount of such information to any person.

Legal Protection

50. No action shall be brought against an employee of the Foreign Service or an employee from outside the Foreign Service holding a position in the Foreign Service for an act done, or an act omitted, in the good faith discharge of his or her responsibilities.

Disciplinary Action

51. If an employee of the Foreign Service or an employee from outside the Foreign Service holding a position in the Foreign Service is proven, in a manner prescribed in the regulation on employees formulated under this Law, to have committed an act prohibited under sections 48 and 49 of this Law, the Minister has the discretion to take one of the following actions against that employee.

(a) Demotion by one grade; or

(b) Suspension from the Foreign Service for a period not exceeding one year; or

(c) Dismissal from the post.

Dismissal from Post

52. Employees of the Foreign Service shall be dismissed from their posts in the following circumstances.

(a) Violation of this Law and the regulation on employees and the Code of Conduct of the Foreign Service formulated under this Law;

(b) Loss of a qualification specified in section 42 of this Law;

(c) Being convicted of a criminal offense;

(d) Requesting to be dismissed from the post;

(e) Failing to pass a training course required to be completed to perform the duties of the job, or failing to complete the course;

(f) It being proven that the employee obtained the job in violation of the procedure for appointing employees as set out in this Law and the regulation on employees formulated under this Law;

(g) Failure to meet the qualifications required of a Foreign Service employee within the period specified in section 63(r) of this Law;

(h) The death of that employee.

Right to Submit to the Employment Tribunal

53. A person who is dissatisfied with an action taken or a decision made under this chapter has the right to submit the matter to the Employment Tribunal within 3 (three) months from the date the action was taken or the decision was made.

Sending Persons on Posting

54.
(a) Employees shall be sent to positions in diplomatic missions and consular posts, other than the posts of Ambassador and Service Attaché, to the positions specified from sections 38(a) to (n) and 39(a) to (n) of this Law, in the manner prescribed in the regulation on sending persons on postings and recalling them, formulated under this Law.

(b) The manner in which persons will be appointed to the post of Service Attaché and the manner in which persons will be sent to that post shall be specified in the regulation on sending persons on postings and recalling them, formulated under this Law.

Deputation of Foreign Service Employees to Other State Institutions

55. The Minister is empowered to depute employees of the Foreign Service to another state institution or to an international organization of which the Maldives is a member, for a specific period, in the manner prescribed in the regulation on employees formulated under this Law.

Structure, Salary, and Benefits of Employees

56.
(a) A job structure specifying the job categories, responsibilities of the positions, and qualifications for the positions of the employees of the Foreign Service and employees from outside the Foreign Service holding positions in the Foreign Service shall be formulated by the Ministry with the advice of the Foreign Service Advisory Board and submitted to the President's Office.

(b) The structure formulated under subsection (a) of this section shall be implemented after it has been submitted to the President's Office and approval has been obtained.

(c) The salaries and benefits of the employees included in the job structure formulated under subsection (a) of this section shall be determined by the Ministry of Finance in accordance with the standards and principles determined by the National Pay Commission under the State Pay Policy Law.[2]

Chapter Nine

Employees from Outside the Foreign Service

Appointment of Employees from Outside the Foreign Service

57. Employees from outside the Foreign Service may be appointed to the following categories of positions to work in the Ministry, the diplomatic missions of the Republic of Maldives, and consular posts.

(a) Senior management employees, as specified in section 41(a)(1) of this Law;

(b) Employees seconded from another state institution, as specified in section 41(a)(2) of this Law;

(c) Employees appointed from outside the Foreign Service for a specific period to perform a specific responsibility, as specified in section 41(a)(4) of this Law;

(d) Salaries and benefits for employees seconded from another state institution to a position in the Foreign Service under section 41(a)(2) of this Law shall be arranged by the institution from which the employee was seconded.

Application of Procedures for Foreign Service Employees to Employees from Outside the Foreign Service

58. The procedures stated in this Law and the regulation on employees and the Code of Conduct of the Foreign Service formulated hereunder to be followed by the employees of the Foreign Service in relation to the following matters shall also apply to employees from outside the Foreign Service holding positions in the Foreign Service.

(a) Appointment to and dismissal from employment;

(b) Disciplinary action;

(c) Working hours;

(d) Leave;

(e) The Code of Conduct formulated under this Law;

(f) Confidentiality.

Sending on Posting

59. Employees from outside the Foreign Service holding positions in the Foreign Service may be sent to specific positions in the diplomatic missions and consular posts of the Republic of Maldives as specified in the regulation on sending persons on postings and recalling them, formulated under this Law.

Chapter Ten

Foreign Service Advisory Board

Foreign Service Advisory Board

60. To provide the advice required by the Minister to carry out various tasks related to the foreign policy of the Republic of Maldives in a robust manner, and to advise the Minister on the matters specified in this Law and the regulations formulated hereunder and on other matters relating to employees, a board by the name of "Foreign Service Advisory Board" shall be formed within 90 (ninety) days from the date of commencement of this Law.

Members of the Board

61.
(a) Members of the Board shall be appointed and removed by the Minister. The Board shall be composed of the following 5 (five) members.
(1) Foreign Secretary;
(2) An employee designated by the Minister from among the employees of the Executive Staff category of the Foreign Service;
(3) The head of the Foreign Service Institute;
(4) A senior employee designated by the Minister from among the employees of the General Staff category of the Foreign Service;
(5) A person appointed by the Minister from among those not in service who have served in a senior position in the Ministry for at least 10 (ten) years.

(b) Members of the Foreign Service Advisory Board who are included by virtue of their position shall not receive any financial benefit.

Conducting Board Meetings

62. The details of the conduct of the work of the Board, the responsibilities and powers of the Board, the quorum for Board meetings, the procedure for holding meetings, the term of the members of the Board, and the replacement of members shall be specified in the regulation on employees formulated under this Law.

Chapter Eleven

Transitional Arrangements

Employees at the Commencement of the Law

63. Employees serving in the Ministry, the diplomatic missions of the Republic of Maldives, and consular posts at the time of the commencement of this Law shall be transferred to the positions specified in sections 35 and 36 of this Law within 90 (ninety) days of the commencement of this Law, in accordance with the following procedure.

(a) Ambassadors serving as Heads of diplomatic missions of the Republic of Maldives who have served in a position in the Ministry other than the post of Ambassador for at least 5 (five) years before being appointed to the post of Ambassador, shall be transferred to the positions of the Executive Service Staff in a manner prescribed in the regulation on employees formulated under this Law and on the advice of the Foreign Service Advisory Board. Even if the Ambassadors are transferred to those positions, they will remain in the post of Ambassador until they are recalled.

(b) Ambassadors who are not transferred to the positions of the Executive Service Staff as provided in subsection (a) of this section will remain in the post of Ambassador until they are recalled or removed from the post of Ambassador.

(c) Employees of the Maldivian Civil Service shall be appointed as employees of the Foreign Service in a manner prescribed in the regulation on employees formulated under this Law and in accordance with the following procedure.
(1) Employees serving in the posts of Director and above, to the Executive Service Staff category, in the manner prescribed in the regulation on the transfer of employees;
(2) Employees serving in posts below Director who have 2 (two) years of experience in work related to the foreign sector and a first degree, or an equivalent or higher qualification, to the Executive Service Staff category, in the manner prescribed in the regulation on employees;
(3) Employees serving in posts below Director who have spent more than 10 (ten) years in the service of the Ministry and have completed or are completing at least 1 (one) posting, to the Professional Service category, in the manner prescribed in the regulation on employees;
(4) Employees serving in posts below Director who have spent more than 15 (fifteen) years in the service of the Ministry, to the highest category of the General Service, in the manner prescribed in the regulation on employees;
(5) Persons who do not meet the qualifications specified from subsection (n)(2) to (4) of this section, to other categories of the General Service.

(d) Employees who are in employment at the commencement of this Law and who do not meet the qualifications specified in section 42(a)(1) of this Law shall be given a period of 3 (three) years from the date of publication of this Law in the Government Gazette to meet those qualifications. That period shall begin from the 1st day of January of the year following the year in which this Law commences.

Chapter Twelve

Foreign Service Institute

Providing Special Training to Foreign Service Employees

64. To make the employees of the Foreign Service a capable group that can achieve the purposes stated in section 4 of this Law, training, skills, and experience shall be provided to those employees and all employees appointed to positions in the Foreign Service under this Law.[3]

Foreign Service Institute

65. With the commencement of this Law, all work of the Foreign Service Institute, which was operating under the Ministry, will be transformed into an institute empowered under the law to carry on its work.[3]

Purpose of the Foreign Service Institute

66. The purposes of the Foreign Service Institute include the following.[3]

(a) To provide the necessary training to make the employees of the Foreign Service and all employees holding positions in the Foreign Service a group with the special training, skills, and experience to achieve the purposes of the Foreign Service;[3]

(b) To study the opportunities available to the Maldives in the international community, how to make the most of such opportunities, and ways to advance the interests of the Maldives in a manner that will benefit the country;[3]

(c) To share the results of such studies as described in subsection (b) of this section with various parts of the Foreign Service, to share them with other institutions of the State in a prescribed manner, and to publish them in a manner that is understandable to the public;[3]

(d) To prepare the necessary documents and conduct the necessary research to provide information and advice to the Minister on diplomacy and international issues.[3]

Responsibility of the Foreign Service Institute

67. The responsibilities of the Foreign Service Institute include the following.

(a) To determine the curriculum of the Foreign Service examination held under this Law, with the consultation of the Foreign Secretary, and to conduct that examination;

(b) To provide the special training and skills required to achieve the purposes of this Law to the employees of the Foreign Service and all employees working in the Foreign Service;

(c) To determine the curriculum of the training referred to in subsection (b) of this section in the manner prescribed in the regulation on training employees formulated under this Law, and to conduct that training;

(d) To conduct research on the foreign policy of the Maldives, important topics related to that policy, and important issues currently taking place in the world;

(e) To educate and raise awareness among other government agencies, the public, and students on the foreign policy of the Maldives and important issues related to foreign policy.

Administration of the Institute

68. An employee of the Executive Staff from among the employees of the Foreign Service shall be appointed as the head of the Institute to administer the Institute and to conduct the training courses and research work conducted by the Institute.

Chapter Thirteen

Miscellaneous

Making and Implementing Regulations

69.
(a) The regulations formulated under this Law shall be made and implemented by the Ministry.

(b) The following regulations from among the regulations formulated under this Law shall be formulated and published in the Government Gazette within 90 (ninety) days of the commencement of this Law.
(1) General Regulation of the Foreign Service;
(2) Code of Conduct of the Foreign Service;
(3) Regulation on Employees;
(4) Regulation on Training of Employees;
(5) Regulation on Sending Persons on Postings and Recalling Them;
(6) Regulation on Diplomatic Missions and Consular Posts of the Republic of Maldives;
(7) Regulation on the Establishment and Operation in the Republic of Maldives of Diplomatic Missions and Consular Posts Established by Foreign Countries and International Organizations.

(c) In addition to the regulations specified in the numbers from subsection (b)(1) to (7) of this section, the Ministry has the discretion to make regulations on matters within the scope of this Law concerning matters related to the Foreign Service.

Commencement of the Law

70. This Law shall commence 6 (six) months from the date of its publication in the Government Gazette.

Definitions

71. Unless otherwise expressly stated in this Law, the following words and phrases used in this Law shall have the meanings given below.

(a) "Ministry" means the government ministry to which the responsibility of implementing the foreign policy of the Republic of Maldives is assigned at any given time.

(b) "Minister" means the minister of the government ministry to which the responsibility of implementing the foreign policy of the Republic of Maldives is assigned at any given time.

(c) "Mission" means the diplomatic missions of the Republic of Maldives established in accordance with this Law and the "Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations 1961".

(d) "Ambassador" means the "Head of Mission" of diplomatic missions, a person appointed by the President, by whatever name, to represent the Maldives in a foreign country or an international organization.

(e) "Consular Post" means the consulates of the Republic of Maldives established abroad to carry out consular work in accordance with this Law and international treaties.

(f) "Posting" means going to perform a job in diplomatic missions and consular posts.

(g) "Employees from outside the Foreign Service" means employees given employment in the manner specified in section 57 of this Law.

(h) "Service Attaché" means the positions for which prior approval must be obtained from the designated country, under Article 7 of the "Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations 1961".

(i) "Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations 1961" means the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, which came into force on 14 April 1961 and was acceded to by the Republic of Maldives on 2 October 2007.

(j) "Employment Act" means Law No. 2/2008 (Employment Act) and all amendments made to it.

(k) "Employment Tribunal" means the tribunal established under Law No. 2/2008 (Employment Act) to look into employment-related matters.

(l) "State Pay Policy Law" means Law No. 11/2016 (State Pay Policy Law) and all amendments made to it.

(m) "National Pay Commission" means the National Pay Commission established under section 5 of Law No. 11/2016 (State Pay Policy Law).

(n) "Employees of the Foreign Service" means the Executive Service Staff and the General Service Staff of the Foreign Service specified in section 34 of this Law.

