Law on Local Council Elections

Introduction and Title

1.
(a) This is the law that governs the holding of elections to elect members to Atoll Councils, City Councils, and Island Councils, and sets forth all the principles and procedures for such elections.

(b) This law shall be cited as the "Law on Local Council Elections."

Local Council Elections

2.
(a) The election held to elect members to Atoll Councils, City Councils, and Island Councils in accordance with the Constitution shall be called the Local Council Elections. For the purposes of this law, the general meaning of Local Council Elections shall also include by-elections held to elect a member or members to a vacant seat or seats in a Local Council, which have become vacant for reasons other than the expiration of the term of the Local Council.

(b) Matters concerning the Local Council Elections shall be conducted in accordance with the special principles and procedures specified in this law and the regulations made hereunder. All other principles and procedures not specified in this law, or not explicitly stated otherwise in this law, shall be conducted in accordance with Law No. 11/2008 (General Act on Elections).

Persons Entitled to Vote and the Register of Persons Entitled to Vote

3.
The right to vote in the Local Council Elections is granted to persons specified in Law No. 11/2008 (General Act on Elections). The compilation and announcement of the register of persons entitled to vote in the Local Council Elections shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures stipulated for such matters in Law No. 11/2008 (General Act on Elections).

Voting and Counting of Votes in the Election

4.
(a) The Elections Commission shall make arrangements for voting in the council elections held under this law in a manner that allows eligible voters residing in the Maldives to cast their votes.

(b) The Elections Commission shall endeavor to make arrangements for voting in a manner that allows citizens residing outside the Maldives to cast their votes.

(c) In circumstances where the secrecy of the vote may be compromised due to the requirement of voting into a specific ballot box, the Elections Commission has the discretion to take necessary measures to ensure the secrecy of the vote. Even in circumstances where special measures are required to ensure the secrecy of the vote, the counting of votes, tabulation, determination of results, and announcement of results shall be carried out at that polling station.

Number of Members to be Elected to the Atoll Council

5.
In each administrative division of the Maldives as specified in Article 4 (a) of Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act), when electing members to the Atoll Council from that administrative division, administrative divisions with more than 2 (two) electoral constituencies shall elect 1 (one) member from each electoral constituency to the Atoll Council of that administrative division. And from administrative divisions with 2 (two) electoral constituencies, 3 (three) members elected from the entire atoll shall be elected to the Atoll Council of that administrative division.

Number of Members to be Elected to the City Council

6.
Each City Council as specified in Chapter Five of Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act) shall be composed of members elected from each electoral constituency within that City Council's jurisdiction.

Number of Members to be Elected to the Island Council

7.
Members shall be elected to the Island Councils of the islands in the following numbers:

(a) For every island with a registered population of less than 3,000 (three thousand) people, 3 (three) members shall be elected to the Island Council.

(b) For every island with a registered population of more than 3,000 (three thousand) people, 5 (five) members shall be elected to the Island Council.

(c) The number of members for the Island Council of every inhabited island in the Maldives at the time of the commencement of this law shall be determined and announced by the Elections Commission in accordance with the principles set out in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article.

Determining the Number of Voters in the First Election

8.
For the first election held under this law to elect members to the Local Councils, the Elections Commission shall determine the registered population of each ward, each island, each city, or each electoral constituency as the registered population of that ward, island, city, and electoral constituency as of 31 December 2009. And based on the population figures determined by the Elections Commission in this manner, the number of members for each Local Council shall be determined by the Elections Commission in accordance with the principles set out in Article 5, Article 6, and Article 7 of this law.

Announcement for Candidacy in Local Council Elections

9.
(a) For the purpose of holding the first election of the Local Councils established under Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act), within 45 (forty-five) days from the date of commencement of this law, and upon the expiration of the term of the existing Local Councils as specified in the Constitution reaching 120 (one hundred and twenty) days, the Elections Commission shall, within a maximum of 15 (fifteen) days, publicly announce and declare that the opportunity to apply for candidacy in the Local Council elections is open.

(b) In the event that a member needs to be elected to a vacant seat of a Local Council due to the vacancy of a member's position, the Elections Commission shall, within the period specified in the regulations made under this law, publicly announce that the opportunity to apply for candidacy in the by-election to be held under Article 26-1 of this law to elect a member to that vacant seat is open.

(c) The announcement made by the Elections Commission under subsection (a) or (b) of this Article shall include the information specified in Article 13 (b) of Law No. 11/2008 (General Act on Elections).

(d) The announcement made by the Elections Commission under subsection (a) or (b) of this Article shall provide a period of at least 14 (fourteen) days for persons wishing to apply for candidacy in the Local Council elections to submit their applications to the Elections Commission.

Changing the Contested Council and Not Contesting for More Than One Council

10.
(a) In the Local Council elections, a person may not contest for more than one council.

(b) In the Local Council elections, a person who has contested for one council may, within the period given by the Elections Commission for submitting applications for the election, withdraw his/her name and contest for another council.

Date of Polling

11.
In the announcement made by the Elections Commission under Article 9 (a) or (b) of this law, the date fixed for holding the Local Council elections shall be a date that allows for a period of at least 28 (twenty-eight) days from the date on which the names of the candidates for the election are publicly announced by the Elections Commission in accordance with Article 16 of this law.

Eligibility Requirements for Persons Contesting in the Election

12.
(a) Persons wishing to contest in the Local Council elections must fulfill the following conditions:

(1) Be a Maldivian citizen;

(2) Not be a citizen of a foreign country;

(3) If a citizen of a foreign country has become a Maldivian citizen, 5 (five) years have passed since he/she became a Maldivian citizen;

(4) Be a Muslim and a follower of the Sunni sect;

(5) Be a person who has completed 18 (eighteen) years of age;

(6) Be a person of sound mind;

(7) If the person has a proven debt that is due for payment, be a person who is repaying the debt in accordance with the judgment;

(8) Not be a person who has been convicted of any criminal offense and is serving a sentence;

(9) Not be a person who has been convicted by a court of committing an immoral act against a minor or of having deprived a person of his or her chastity;

(10) If a person has been convicted by a court of the offense of trafficking in narcotics, and a sentence has been passed against him/her, 7 (seven) years have passed since the completion of the sentence or 7 (seven) years have passed since the pardon of the punishment determined by that sentence;

(11) If a person has been convicted by a court of a criminal offense other than the offenses mentioned in subsections (9) and (10) of this Article, and a sentence of more than 12 (twelve) months has been passed against him/her, 3 (three) years have passed since the completion of the sentence or 3 (three) years have passed since the pardon of the punishment determined by that sentence.

(b) If a citizen of a foreign country has become a Maldivian citizen, he/she may contest for membership of a Local Council only if 5 (five) years have passed since he/she became a Maldivian citizen and he/she is a person residing in the Maldives.

(c) A person in any of the following circumstances shall not be eligible to participate in the Local Council elections:

(1) If the person has a proven debt that is due for payment, be a person who is not repaying the debt in accordance with the judgment.

(2) Be a person who is serving a punishment for a criminal offense.

(3) If a person has been convicted of a criminal offense other than the offenses specified in subsections (4) and (5) of this Article and has been sentenced to a term of more than 12 (twelve) months, be a person for whom 3 (three) years have not passed since the completion of the sentence or the pardon of the punishment determined by that sentence.

(4) Be a person who has been convicted by a court of an offense for which a hadd is prescribed in Islam, or an offense of treason, or an offense of bribery, or an offense of trafficking in or using narcotics.

(5) Be a person who has been convicted by a court of committing an immoral act against a minor or of having deprived a person of his or her chastity.

(6) Be a full-time student of any school, madrasa, or educational institution.

Contesting for Local Council Membership by Persons in the Civil Service

13.
(a) If a person in the Civil Service contests for membership of a Local Council in an election held to elect members to a Local Council under this law, he/she shall be suspended from his/her position in the Civil Service from the date of his/her contesting in that election.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this Article, if a person in the Civil Service withdraws his/her name from that election, or if he/she is not elected to the seat for which he/she contested, he/she shall be given the opportunity to return to the position he/she held in the Civil Service. And if he/she is successful in the election he/she contested, he/she shall be deemed to have resigned from the position in the Civil Service.

(c) A civil service employee who contests for membership of the Local Council under this Article shall not receive the salary and any other benefits he/she was receiving from the civil service employment during the period of his/her suspension from employment under subsection (a) of this Article.

Submission of Application to Contest in Local Council Elections

14.
(a) Upon the announcement by the Elections Commission as specified in Article 9 (a) or (b) of this law, persons wishing to contest in the Local Council elections shall submit to the Elections Commission the information and documents related to contesting in the Local Council elections.

(b) When a person wishing to contest in the Local Council elections submits an application for that purpose, he/she shall include the information specified in Article 16 (b) of Law No. 11/2008 (General Act on Elections).

Documents to be Submitted with the Information Submitted for Contesting in the Election

15.
(a) Along with the information submitted by a person wishing to contest in the Local Council elections in accordance with Article 14 of this law, the documents specified in Article 17 of Law No. 11/2008 (General Act on Elections) shall be submitted to the Elections Commission.

(b) The amount of the deposit to be paid by persons contesting in the Local Council elections is -/1,500 (one thousand five hundred) Rufiyaa.

(c) A person contesting without a ticket of a political party shall submit the signatures of at least 50 (fifty) persons from the electoral constituency.

Notification of the Decision on the Application Submitted for Contesting in the Election

15-1.
(a) Within a maximum of 5 (five) days of the receipt by the Elections Commission of the written application submitted by a person wishing to contest in the election as provided for in Article 14 of this law, the Elections Commission shall notify the person in writing whether his/her application has been accepted or not.

(b) In deciding on the application submitted by a person wishing to contest in the election under subsection (a) of this Article, and in notifying the decision to the person wishing to contest in the election, and in the case of a person who is dissatisfied with such a notification submitting the matter to the court, the procedures and rules of procedure set out in the letters from (b) to (h) of Article 21 of Law No. 11/2008 (General Act on Elections) shall be followed.

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (b) of this Article, in the Local Council elections, the period prescribed in subsection (h) of Article 21 of Law No. 11/2008 (General Act on Elections) for submitting a case to the court under subsection (g) of that Article shall commence from the time of the expiration of the period specified in subsection (a) of this Article.

Announcement of the Names of Persons Who Have Contested in the Local Council Election

16.
Within a maximum of 21 (twenty-one) days from the date of the expiration of the period given for contesting in the Local Council elections in the announcement made by the Elections Commission under Article 9 (a) or (b) of this law, the information specified in Article 14 (a) of Law No. 11/2008 (General Act on Elections) shall be announced and the announcement shall be displayed by the Elections Commission at its office and in a manner that can be viewed by the people of that island or the administrative division or ward for which the person is contesting. And the information shall be published on the website of the Elections Commission.

General Principles Regarding the Announcement of Local Council Elections and Candidates

17.
With the exception of the matters specified in Article 9, Article 10, Article 11, Article 12, Article 14, Article 15 and Article 15-1 of this law, matters relating to the announcement of elections and candidates in the Local Council elections shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of Law No. 11/2008 (General Act on Elections).

Invalid Votes and Uncast Votes

18.
(a) In the Local Council elections, in addition to the votes that are as specified in Article 56 (a) of Law No. 11/2008 (General Act on Elections), every vote on which a check mark is placed against the names of more candidates than the number to be elected to that council or that position shall be an invalid vote.

(b) A ballot paper on which a check mark is placed against the names of fewer candidates than the number to be elected from that administrative division, that island, or that ward shall be considered a valid ballot paper. If a check mark is placed on such a ballot paper for fewer than the number of candidates to be elected, that check mark shall be counted as a valid vote. In this case, the missing marks on that ballot paper shall be counted as uncast votes.

Period for Publishing the Official Results in the Gazette

19.
The official results of the Local Council elections shall be publicly announced and published in the Government Gazette by the Elections Commission within a maximum of 14 (fourteen) days from the date of polling.

Matters to be Done in Accordance with the General Act on Elections

20.
(a) With the exception of the matters specified in Article 14 of this law, matters relating to campaigning for support, preparations for polling, polling, counting of votes, announcement of results, election-related complaints, finance and financial matters, and election-related offenses and punishments in the Local Council elections shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of Law No. 11/2008 (General Act on Elections).

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this Article, the carrying out of the matters required under Article 14 (a), Article 25, Article 66, Article 67, and Article 73 of Law No. 11/2008 (General Act on Elections) shall not apply to the council elections held under this law for the purposes of this law.

How to be Elected to Local Council Membership

21.
(a) In the Local Council elections, from among the persons contesting for membership of the council, the candidates who receive the highest number of votes from among the voters shall be elected to the membership of that council in descending order until the number of members to be elected from that administrative division, that island, or that electoral constituency to that council is filled.

(b) When the official results of the Local Council elections are announced, the Elections Commission shall announce that the candidates who received the highest number of votes in descending order have been elected to the membership of that council for the number of members to be elected from that administrative division, that island, or that electoral constituency.

Requirement to Hold an Additional Round of the Local Council Election

22.
(a) If, in a Local Council election, more candidates than the number to be elected to that council from any ward, island, city, or electoral constituency receive an equal number of votes, an additional round of that election shall be held among the candidates who received the highest number of equal votes within a maximum of 30 (thirty) days from the date of the announcement of the official results of that election. And polling shall continue in this manner until a candidate is elected to the membership of the council in accordance with this law.

(b) In the additional round of the election held under subsection (a) of this Article, the candidate who receives the highest number of votes from among the voters shall be announced by the Elections Commission as having been elected to the membership of that council.

Matters to be Done in Accordance with this Law in the Additional Round of the Local Council Election

23.
Even when holding an additional round of a Local Council election, matters relating to candidates' campaigning for support, preparations for polling, polling, counting of votes, announcement of results, election-related complaints, finance and financial matters, and election-related offenses and punishments shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this law.

Insufficient Number of Candidates Contesting the Election

24.
If the candidates who have contested in a council election are candidates who fulfill the eligibility requirements for contesting in the election, and the number of candidates who have contested in the election is equal to or less than the number of members to be elected, those candidates shall be declared elected to those positions without holding a poll in that election.

No One Contesting the Election and Insufficient Number of Candidates Contesting

25.
If no one contests in a council election after it has been announced, or if the number of candidates contesting in that election is not equal to the number of members to be elected from that constituency, the Elections Commission shall announce under Article 9 of this law 90 (ninety) days before the expiration of the term of the members temporarily appointed to those positions under Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act) in order to elect the members to be elected to that council in accordance with this law.

Ensuring the Secrecy of the Vote

26.
(a) In circumstances where the secrecy of the vote is likely to be compromised due to the need to vote into a specific ballot box, the Elections Commission has the discretion to take necessary measures to ensure the secrecy of the vote. Even in circumstances where special measures are required to ensure the secrecy of the vote, the counting of votes, tabulation, determination of results, and announcement of results shall be carried out at that polling station.

(b) The manner in which the Elections Commission shall act under subsection (a) of this Article shall be specified in the regulations made under Article 27 (a) of this law.

Holding of Local Council By-elections

26-1
(a) Unless otherwise specified in Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act), by-elections to elect members to vacant seats of a Local Council under Article 15 (b), Article 29 (b), or Article 45 (b) of that law shall be held twice a year.

(b) Between two by-elections held in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article, a period of not more than 183 (one hundred and eighty-three) days and not less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days shall not have elapsed.

Making and Enforcing Regulations

27.
(a) The regulations required for the implementation of this law shall be made and enforced by the Elections Commission. And within 21 (twenty-one) days from the date of the commencement of this law, those regulations shall be made and publicly announced.

(b) The Elections Commission shall make arrangements for all regulations made by the Elections Commission regarding elections to be easily accessible to any interested party. And in this regard, the Elections Commission shall make arrangements for all regulations made regarding elections through electronic and other media and the results of the elections to be announced under this law to be publicly available. And if access to information is hindered for any reason, the matter shall be rectified within 24 hours.

(c) Subsection (a) of this Article shall not prevent the Elections Commission from amending a regulation made under it or from making an additional regulation under this law after the period specified in that subsection if the Elections Commission deems it necessary. However, no additional regulation shall be made between the announcement by the Elections Commission that the opportunity to contest in an election is open and the announcement of the official results of that election. And no amendment shall be made to an existing regulation.

Abolition of the Positions of Politically Appointed Councilors upon the Commencement of the Law

28.
If any election is announced to be held under this law, from the date of the announcement of that election until the end of that election, the most senior official within the jurisdiction of the council to which that election pertains shall be an employee of the Civil Service appointed by the Civil Service Commission.

Commencement of the Law

29.
This law shall come into force on the date of its passing, ratification, and publication in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

Definitions of Words and Phrases

30.
(a) Unless otherwise specified in this law;

(b) In calculating the periods given for carrying out various matters and submitting documents mentioned in this law, public holidays shall be included.

(c) Unless otherwise specified or implied in this law, words or phrases used in the singular shall include the plural meaning of those words or phrases, and words or phrases used in the plural shall include the singular meaning of those words or phrases.
