Law on the Legal Profession of the Maldives

Chapter One
Introduction

1. Introduction and Name

(a) This is the law to provide for the issuance of licenses to practice as a lawyer in the Maldives, to regulate, take action, and oversee all matters related to the work of lawyers, to enhance the competence of legal services provided by lawyers, to raise the standard of legal education in the Maldives, and to establish an independent and autonomous state institution named the Bar Council of the Maldives to carry out and oversee all the aforementioned matters, and to specify the manner in which the said institution shall conduct its work.

(b) This Law shall be cited as the "Legal Profession Act."

2. Purpose of the Law

The purpose of this Law is to achieve the following:

(a) To issue licenses to practice as lawyers in the Maldives, to regulate, take action, and oversee all professional matters related to the work of lawyers, and to provide further training to lawyers, and to develop and maintain the legal profession;

(b) To establish principles that facilitate the most appropriate delivery of services for persons receiving services from lawyers;

(c) To make arrangements for the provision of legal services by lawyers in the Maldives in accordance with a prescribed code of conduct;

(d) To ensure the integrity of lawyers, to monitor acts contrary to the code of conduct to be upheld by lawyers in their professional sphere, to protect the rights of persons seeking the services of lawyers, and to regulate the relationship and transactions with a lawyer;

(e) To strengthen the provision of legal education in the Maldives and to raise the standard of legal education.

Chapter Two
The Bar Council of the Maldives

3. The Bar Council

(a) Upon the commencement of this Act, an independent, autonomous legal entity by the name of "The Bar Council of the Maldives" is hereby established to carry out the responsibilities entrusted to it by this Act, with the power to conduct its affairs, to sue and be sued in its own name, to acquire and receive movable and immovable property, to receive property in perpetuity, and having a separate seal with the right to these powers.

(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law, after the commencement of this Act, no association shall be registered in the name of the Bar Council. Nor shall any association be registered under a name so closely associated with the name of the Bar Council that, if used by another party, it could be construed as a part of the Bar Council established under this Act or as an association or legal person established to perform the same kind of work as the Council.

4. Seal

The Bar Council shall have a seal. This seal shall be used under the supervision of the President and the Secretary-General of the Bar Council in accordance with the principles determined by them.

5. Objectives of the Bar Council

The objectives of the Bar Council are to achieve the following:

(a) To protect the rights and privileges of lawyers practicing in the Maldives, to grant licenses to practice law, to regulate, take action, and oversee all professional matters related to the work of lawyers, to establish the principles of legal service, and to ensure that the work of lawyers is carried out with honesty and fairness;

(b) To protect the interests of persons seeking legal assistance in obtaining such legal assistance from lawyers;

(c) To formulate and enforce a code of conduct for lawyers and to take necessary measures for its enforcement;

(d) In order to maintain public confidence in the legal service, to monitor, review and advise on the reform of legal services provided by all parties working in the service;

(e) To formulate rules and principles for persons working in the field of legal services, to train them, and to work for the advancement of the field of legal services;

(f) To work to uphold the freedom and independence of the legal service sector;

(g) To take necessary measures to promote legal education provided by higher education institutions in the Maldives and to maintain its quality;

(h) To assist the relevant state authorities in arranging for a state-appointed lawyer for persons who do not have the financial means to seek the assistance of a lawyer in major criminal cases.

6. Executive Committee

(a) The Bar Council shall be administered by an Executive Committee formed in accordance with this Act, and by the permanent sub-committees established by the Executive Committee.

(b) The permanent sub-committees referred to in subsection (a) are the Licensing Committee, the Ethics Committee, the Appeals Committee, the Legal Education Committee, and the Law Reform and Research Committee.

(c) The Executive Committee of the Bar Council shall consist of the 9 (nine) members specified in this article.
(1) A person elected as the President of the Bar Council from among the lawyers;
(2) A person elected as the Vice President of the Bar Council from among the lawyers;
(4) 7 (seven) lawyers elected from among the lawyers.

(d) Members shall be elected to the Executive Committee of the Bar Council by a secret ballot among lawyers who are licensed to practice law in the Maldives.

7. Powers and Responsibilities of the Executive Committee

The Bar Council shall be administered by the Executive Committee of the Bar Council. The powers and responsibilities of the Executive Committee of the Bar Council are set out below.

(a) To regulate the legal services sector and to establish the methods and standards to be followed in providing legal services;

(b) To regulate the legal services sector and to formulate and take measures on the rules, principles, and policies that state the principles and code of conduct to be followed in providing legal services;

(c) To formulate regulations specifying the principles for granting a license to practice law, and to grant, suspend, and revoke licenses in accordance with those regulations;

(d) To establish professional standards related to the license to practice law and to continuously review those standards;

(e) To make arrangements to ensure that legal service is a service provided by a person who holds a license to practice law;

(f) To investigate cases of violation of the established principles and code of conduct in the provision of legal services by lawyers and to take necessary measures against such persons in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act;

(g) To establish a framework for the transparent conduct of financial transactions related to the person seeking legal services, conducted by persons working in the legal services sector in connection with the work of the sector;

(h) To formulate and enforce the necessary regulations and procedures for the development of legal services;

(i) To determine the standards of work of lawyers, to identify and study the measures to be taken to raise their standard of work, to implement such measures, and to regularly monitor the standard of their work;

(j) To conduct studies on various matters related to legal services and to publish the reports of such studies;

(k) To carry out all necessary work generally required for the promotion and development of legal services;

(l) To represent the legal services sector of the Maldives in meetings, seminars, and conferences held at a national or international level regarding the legal services sector;

(m) To form an electoral committee to hold the election for the appointment of a lawyer to the Judicial Service Commission from among the lawyers under Article 158(m) of the Constitution, and to do all things necessary for that purpose;

(n) If 20% (twenty percent) of the lawyers registered in the Bar Council's registry submit a petition for the removal of the member elected from the lawyers to the Judicial Service Commission under Article 158(m) of the Constitution, in accordance with Article 165 of the Constitution, to hold a vote on the removal of that member within 14 (fourteen) days of the submission of the petition;

(o) To hold elections required under a law that mandates the election of a lawyer or a representative of the legal field and to make all related arrangements;

(p) To provide necessary information and advice to an institution established by law in the appointment of a lawyer or a representative of the legal field to be appointed to that institution;

(q) If the Bar Council deems that a case pending in a court or tribunal established by law is a case of public interest or a case that has the potential to decide on an important legal and constitutional matter related to the interest of a large part of society, to intervene in such a case;

(r) To express opinions and information on legal or constitutional issues and matters of public interest;

(s) To make regulations regarding the curriculum, duration of the course, and entry requirements for law courses conducted by higher education institutions in the Maldives;

(t) In necessary situations, to inspect the teaching of law courses conducted by higher education institutions in the Maldives and to instruct those institutions to make necessary improvements;

(u) In necessary situations, to conduct assessments of the examinations of law courses and programs conducted by higher education institutions in the Maldives and to take action;

(v) For the purpose of granting licenses to various persons to practice as a lawyer in the Maldives, to determine the educational institutions and training centers that will be recognized by the Bar Council in the field of legal services;

(w) To establish relations with international organizations active in the field of legal services and to become a member of such associations;

(x) To form various committees as determined by the Executive Committee of the Bar Council to achieve the objectives of the Bar Council and to assign work to those committees;

(y) To perform all responsibilities assigned to the Bar Council by this Act or any other law;

(z) To make regulations regarding the classification of lawyers registered with the Bar Council.

8. Qualifications of the President and Vice President

The President and Vice President of the Bar Council must meet the following qualifications:

(a) Have 10 (ten) years of experience practicing as a lawyer; and

(b) Not be a person against whom a matter questioning their integrity in their work in the legal field has been proven in a court of law or by the Bar Council; and

(c) Not be a person who is legally bankrupt or has been convicted of a criminal offense.

9. Secretary-General

The Secretary-General of the Bar Council shall be appointed by the Executive Committee of the Bar Council. The Secretary-General must meet the following qualifications:

(a) Have obtained a first degree in the legal field and have 7 (seven) years of experience practicing as a lawyer; and

(b) Not be a person against whom a matter questioning their integrity in their work in the legal field has been proven in a court of law or by the Bar Council; and

(c) Not be a person who is legally bankrupt or has been convicted of a criminal offense.

10. Members of the Executive Committee

The 7 (seven) members elected to the Executive Committee of the Bar Council must meet the following qualifications:

(a) Have 5 (five) years of experience working in the legal field; and

(b) Not be a person against whom a matter questioning their integrity in their work in the legal field has been proven in a court of law or by the Bar Council; and

(c) Not be a person who is legally bankrupt or has been convicted of a criminal offense.

11. Election of the Executive Committee

(a) The members of the Executive Committee of the Bar Council shall be elected by a secret ballot among lawyers licensed to practice law in the Maldives.

(b) The first election to elect the President, Vice President, and an additional 6 (six) lawyers to the Executive Committee of the Bar Council under this Act shall be held by the Elections Commission in accordance with a procedure determined by the Commission. This first election shall be held within 21 (twenty-one) days of the commencement of this Act.

(c) Only lawyers who are licensed to practice law in the Maldives at the time of the commencement of this Act shall be eligible to vote in the election referred to in subsection (a).

(d) For the purpose of this article, the entity that maintained the register of practicing lawyers in the Maldives before the commencement of this Act shall provide the latest updated register to the Elections Commission in order to compile the list of lawyers eligible to vote. If the name of any judge is included in the register received by the Elections Commission, the Commission shall remove the name of that judge from the list of lawyers eligible to vote.

(e) Elections held after the first election to elect members to the Executive Committee of the Bar Council shall be held by the Bar Council in accordance with the election regulations determined and announced by the Bar Council.

(f) If a position on the Executive Committee of the Bar Council becomes vacant, an election to elect a person to the vacant position shall be held within 30 (thirty) days from the date the position becomes vacant.

12. Term of Membership

(a) The term of the members elected to the Executive Committee of the Bar Council under Article 6 of this Act is 3 (three) years.

(b) A person elected as the President of the Bar Council may not hold that position for more than 1 (one) term.

(c) Every person elected as a member of the Executive Committee, other than the President of the Bar Council, may hold the position of a member of the Executive Committee of the Bar Council for a maximum of 2 (two) terms, whether consecutive or otherwise.

13. Vacancy of a Position on the Executive Committee

In the event of any of the following circumstances, the membership of a member elected to the Executive Committee of the Bar Council shall be deemed to have ended:

(a) Completion of the term;

(b) Resignation;

(c) Removal from membership under this Act;

(d) Death or the occurrence of a situation that renders the member incapable of performing the duties of the position;

(e) Loss of a qualification for membership.

14. Quorum

The quorum for meetings of the Executive Committee of the Bar Council is 5 (five) members.

15. Meetings of the Executive Committee

(a) The meetings of the Executive Committee of the Bar Council shall be presided over by the President. In the absence of the President, the meetings shall be presided over by the Vice President.

(b) A meeting of the Executive Committee of the Bar Council shall be held at least 2 (two) times every calendar month.

(c) The procedure for holding meetings of the Bar Council shall be stated in the regulations made under this Act.

16. Removal of a Member

(a) A member of the Executive Committee of the Bar Council may be removed from office upon a written submission to the Bar Council by no less than 100 (one hundred) lawyers for the removal of that member, and upon a resolution passed by a two-thirds majority of the members of the Executive Committee of the Bar Council to remove that member from the membership of the Executive Committee of the Bar Council.

(b) If a proposal for the removal of a member is submitted under subsection (a) of this article, the matter shall be placed on the agenda of the Executive Committee within 15 (fifteen) days from the date of submission. And the manner in which the Executive Committee shall act upon the submission of such a matter shall be stated in the regulations made under this Act.

17. Grounds for Proposing the Removal of a Member of the Executive Committee

A member of the Executive Committee may be proposed for removal under Article 16 of this Act in the following circumstances:

(a) Inability to perform the responsibilities stated in this Act and the regulations made under this Act to be performed by a member of the Executive Committee of the Bar Council;

(b) Repeated negligence in performing the responsibilities stated in this Act and the regulations made under this Act to be performed by a member of the Executive Committee of the Bar Council;

(c) Engaging in an act that constitutes a conflict of interest.

18. Intervention in Matters of Public Interest

In the circumstances specified in Article 7(q) of this Act, a decision that a case pending in a court or tribunal established by law is a matter of public interest requiring the intervention of the Bar Council as stated in this Act shall be made by a majority vote of a session of the Executive Committee of the Bar Council.

19. Responsibilities of the President

The responsibilities of the President of the Bar Council are set out below:

(a) To provide guidance to the Secretary-General on the administrative work of the Bar Council;

(b) To preside over the meetings of the Executive Committee of the Bar Council;

(c) To cast a vote in situations where a vote taken to pass a matter in a session of the Executive Committee is tied;

(d) Unless otherwise determined by the Executive Committee of the Bar Council, to represent the Bar Council in various places.

20. Responsibilities of the Secretary-General

The Secretary-General of the Bar Council shall perform his duties and responsibilities in the manner specified in this article.

(a) To bear all administrative responsibilities of the Bar Council and to conduct the day-to-day affairs related to its work;

(b) To oversee the administrative affairs of the meetings of the Executive Committee of the Bar Council;

(c) To implement the decisions made by the Executive Committee of the Bar Council.

21. Annual General Meeting

(a) The Annual General Meeting of the Bar Council shall be held once a year.

(b) The meeting referred to in subsection (a) of this article shall be organized by the Executive Committee.

(c) The following reports shall be submitted to the Annual General Meeting of the Bar Council:
(1) The annual report of the Bar Council; and
(2) The audited financial report of the Bar Council.

(d) The regulations regarding the conduct of the Annual General Meeting of the Bar Council shall be passed by the Executive Committee.

22. Financial Matters

(a) Before the beginning of each financial year, the Executive Committee of the Bar Council shall approve a budget prepared in such a way that the income, capital, and recurrent expenditure of the Bar Council for that year are separately identifiable.

(b) In order to facilitate the full performance of the responsibilities of the Bar Council, an amount of money determined from the state budget shall be approved by the People's Majlis.

(c) In order to achieve the purpose stated in subsection (b) of this article, the Bar Council shall submit its required budget for the upcoming year to the ministry in charge of conducting the financial affairs of the state, in the manner prescribed in Law No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act).

(d) All money received as income by the Bar Council shall be deposited into a bank account opened in the name of the Bar Council. And all expenditures of the Bar Council shall be managed in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

(e) The financial accounts of the Bar Council shall be regularly maintained by the Bar Council in such a way that capital expenditure and recurrent expenditure are separately identifiable.

(f) The Bar Council is empowered to raise funds in the manner set out below. And the funds so raised shall be used for the administration of the Bar Council.
(1) Subscriptions paid by lawyers;
(2) Fees charged for issuing a license to practice law, renewing a license, and re-issuing a certificate;
(3) Fines imposed as an administrative or disciplinary measure;
(4) Financial assistance received from various associations and organizations in the Maldives and abroad, from private parties, and from foreign countries;
(5) Fees charged for services provided by the Bar Council;
(6) Money received from training programs conducted by the Bar Council;
(7) Income and money received from other activities conducted by the Bar Council in accordance with the law and regulations.

(g) The financial accounts of the Bar Council shall be audited once a year by a licensed auditor and an audit report shall be prepared.

(h) The audit report referred to in subsection (g) of this article shall be submitted to the Auditor General's Office after being submitted to and approved by the Annual General Meeting of the Bar Council.

23. Salary and Financial Benefits of the Members of the Executive Committee

The members of the Executive Committee of the Bar Council shall not receive any salary or financial benefits.

24. Annual Report

Within 60 (sixty) days of the end of each calendar year, the Executive Committee of the Bar Council shall prepare a report showing the income and expenditure of the past year, the work done to advance the legal services sector, the projected income and expenditure for the coming year, and the planned activities, and submit it to the People's Majlis after it is approved by the Annual General Meeting. The People's Majlis is empowered to instruct the rectification of any matter that needs to be rectified in relation to the report so submitted.

25. Privilege

No member or employee of the Executive Committee of the Bar Council shall be liable for any act done or omitted in accordance with the law within the scope of their work. And in the event of being suspected of a criminal offense in connection with an activity conducted by the Bar Council, liability shall fall on the member or employee who individually committed the criminal act.

26. Employees

The Executive Committee of the Bar Council is empowered to appoint the necessary employees for the conduct of the work of the Bar Council, to determine the responsibilities of the employees, and to carry out all other matters related to employees, such as the dismissal of employees.

27. Conflict of Interest and Confidentiality

(a) No member of the Executive Committee of the Bar Council shall consult with or seek advice from any party that has a direct or indirect interest in any matter to be decided by the Bar Council. Seeking technical consultation necessary for deciding cases shall be an exception under this article.

(b) If a member of the Executive Committee of the Bar Council encounters a matter that may constitute a conflict of interest in a responsibility performed in connection with their position, they shall inform the Executive Committee of the Bar Council of the matter before beginning to perform that responsibility. And such a member shall not participate in consultations and in casting a vote to make a decision regarding such a matter.

(c) If a member of the Executive Committee of the Bar Council participates in any capacity in deciding a matter in which they have a conflict of interest, the Bar Council shall take action against them in accordance with the regulations made under this Act. And a procedure for submitting complaints regarding such matters to the Bar Council shall be formulated and published by the Council.

(d) No member or employee of the Executive Committee of the Bar Council shall disclose any information obtained by virtue of their position to any party except under principles formulated by the Executive Committee of the Bar Council.

(e) The Bar Council shall formulate principles on how to act in disclosing information obtained by a member of the Executive Committee by virtue of their position.

Chapter Three
Issuance of a License to Practice Law

28. Providing Services without a License to Practice Law

(a) Unless otherwise stated in this Act, no person other than those who have been granted a license to practice law shall engage in legal work and provide legal services in the capacity of a lawyer in the Maldives.

(b) A person who violates subsection (a) of this article commits the offense specified in Article 613(b) of Law No. 9/2014 (Maldives Penal Code).

29. Granting a License to Practice Law and Practicing Law

(a) The license issued under this Act to practice as a lawyer shall be called the "License to Practice Law".

(b) The Bar Council shall maintain and publish a register of persons to whom a license to practice law is granted.

(c) Upon receiving the license referred to in subsection (a) of this article, a person may practice and provide legal assistance in the courts, tribunals, investigative bodies, and state and private institutions of the Maldives without obtaining any further license and without registering as a lawyer in any of them.

(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (c) of this article, the Bar Council is empowered to classify lawyers into different grades and to determine the standards and qualifications for those grades for the purpose of appearing and practicing in courts of different levels.

30. Conditions for Granting a License to Practice Law

(a) Unless otherwise stated in this Act, a license to practice law shall be granted to persons who meet the following conditions:
(1) Be a Maldivian citizen of sound mind who has completed 21 (twenty-one) years of age; and
(2) Have obtained a first degree in the legal field from an educational institution that meets the conditions determined by the Bar Council and is accredited by the Bar Council; and
(3) Not be a person who has been convicted of a "major criminal offense" by a court of law within the past 5 (five) years; and
(4) Be a person who has completed the training and the bar examination specified in this Act.

(b) In addition to the conditions specified in subsection (a) of this article, the Bar Council is empowered to determine additional conditions in accordance with the practice of the International Bar Association.

31. Taking the Bar Examination and Completing Training

(a) A person who has obtained a degree from an educational institution specified in Article 30(a)(2) of this Act must, before applying for a license to practice law, pass the bar examination specified in Article 30(a)(4) of this Act and complete the training mentioned in that article.

(b) The scope and structure of the training program to be completed by a person applying for a license to practice law under subsection (a) of this article shall be determined by the Bar Council in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

(c) The training program formulated by the Bar Council under subsection (b) of this article shall be a training program designed to provide applicants for a license to practice law with the basic training and information necessary to work in the legal field.

32. The Bar Examination

The curriculum of the bar examination specified in Article 30(a)(4) of this Act, the manner in which the examination will be conducted, the date of the examination, and the standards and principles for participating in the examination shall be determined by the Bar Council.

33. Oath of Lawyers

(a) Persons who meet the conditions specified in Article 30 of this Act shall take the oath of a lawyer as set out in Schedule 1 of this Act before a judge of the High Court of the Maldives. A license to practice law shall be issued to persons who take the oath of a lawyer in the manner specified in this article.

(b) The license issued under this article shall bear the seal of the Bar Council and be signed by the President or Vice President of the Bar Council. This license shall be a document that proves that the person to whom it is issued is licensed to practice as a lawyer in the Maldives and, in accordance with the regulations made under this Act, is licensed to practice in the courts of the Maldives. Every person to whom such a document is issued shall be recognized as a lawyer by the courts, government offices, and private parties of the Maldives. And as long as such a person holds the license, no one shall obstruct them from practicing in the courts and government offices of the Maldives.

33-1. Taking the Oath by Persons Who Have Not Taken the Oath

(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other article of this Act, the Bar Council shall formulate and conduct a 1 (one) month training program specifically for all persons who, at the time of the commencement of this Act, have obtained a first degree in the legal field from a higher education institution recognized by the Maldives Qualifications Authority but have not taken the oath of a lawyer.

(b) The Bar Council shall formulate the procedure stating the individual components of the training program referred to in subsection (a) of this article and the manner in which the level of the participants of the training program will be assessed, and shall publish it in the Government Gazette of the Maldives within 7 (seven) days from the date of commencement of this Act.

(c) The training program referred to in subsection (a) of this article shall commence within a maximum of 7 (seven) days from the date of publication of the procedure referred to in subsection (b) of this article in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

(d) For persons who complete the training program specified in subsection (a) of this article and meet the conditions specified in Article 30(a)(1), (2), and (3) of this Act, the Bar Council shall make arrangements for them to take the oath of a lawyer in the manner specified in Article 33(a) of this Act within a maximum of 21 (twenty-one) days from the date of completion of the training program.

34. Renewal of the License to Practice Law

(a) The license to practice law issued under this Act is a license that must be renewed within a period predetermined by the Bar Council.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this article, the Bar Council shall require the renewal of the license mentioned in that article only on dates announced after the completion of 5 (five) years from the date of commencement of this Act. And at least 3 (three) years must have passed between any two such dates.

(c) The Bar Council is empowered to determine the manner in which persons shall apply for the renewal of a license under subsection (a) of this article, and the principles and conditions to be followed in renewing the license.

35. License to Practice Law for Judges

(a) If a lawyer licensed under this Act is appointed to the position of a judge, from that moment onwards, that lawyer shall be considered a "non-practicing lawyer". And for as long as they remain a judge, the license to practice law of that lawyer shall be suspended. And during the period in which the license is suspended, the rights and privileges granted to such lawyers under this Act shall also be suspended.

(b) If a judge referred to in subsection (a) of this article leaves their position, the temporary suspension of the license to practice law issued to them before they assumed the judgeship shall come to an end.

36. Granting a License to Foreign Lawyers

(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 30 of this Act, if a foreign lawyer applies to practice in a case pending in a court of the Maldives in association with a law firm or legal practice registered in the Maldives or with the Attorney General's Office or the Prosecutor General's Office, a license to practice in that case may be granted to that person under a procedure determined by the Bar Council.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this article, this article does not prevent a foreign lawyer from providing legal advice to the state for the benefit of the state.

Chapter Four
Status, Privileges, and Responsibilities of Lawyers

37. Status of Lawyers

Persons to whom a license to practice law has been issued under this Act have the power and authority to do the following:

(a) To generally represent persons who request their services as a lawyer in various places and to provide them with legal assistance;

(b) To represent a client before a court or tribunal established by law or an institution empowered by law to hear disciplinary matters;

(c) To affix a "true copy" stamp on documents submitted with the original;

(d) To work to the best of their ability and competence as a lawyer in relation to the case;

(e) In representing a client in a court or tribunal or other such place, to represent the client in court freely and without any hesitation while respecting those places.

38. Privilege of the Client-Lawyer Relationship and Confidentiality

(a) No conversation, document, image, recording, or information that a client has discussed in relation to a case entrusted to their lawyer shall be disclosed to any party.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this article, information as specified in subsection (a) of this article may be disclosed in the following circumstances:
(1) With the written permission of the person receiving the service;
(2) By a court order.

(c) A lawyer shall not be held responsible for any action taken in defense of their client or in representing that client. And such an act shall not be considered a disciplinary matter and action shall not be taken.

(d) The Bar Council is empowered to include and stipulate in the regulations formulated under this Act the principles regarding the relationship between a lawyer and a client, in accordance with the principles established by the International Bar Association.

Chapter Five
Conduct of Lawyers and Disciplinary Complaints

39. Upholding the Client's Interest and Exercising Due Care

Lawyers shall not do the following:

(a) Any act that may cause damage to the rights and interests of the client, whether intentionally, through negligence, or through carelessness;

(b) Without taking necessary precautionary measures, to do anything that has a potential for loss or may lead to such a situation in relation to a matter for which the client requires legal assistance;

(c) To use information, power, a document, or authority received from the client for personal gain or in an improper manner;

(d) Any act where the lawyer's interest may conflict with the client's interest, or where the interest of one client may conflict with the interest of another client;

(e) Any act that may cause the public to lose trust in lawyers and persons working in the legal field.

40. Accepting Work without Discrimination

If a lawyer is offered to undertake the work of providing legal assistance to any person, they shall, after arranging a reasonable fee, accept all such offered work without discrimination. However, if there are reasons acceptable by the standards determined by the Bar Council, the lawyer may decline to accept the work.

41. Maintaining Integrity

A lawyer shall not do any act that may raise questions about their integrity.

42. Not Accepting Work

A lawyer shall not accept the following types of work in the following circumstances:

(a) Work that appears to be an obstacle to working independently;

(b) Work where the other party involved in that work or case is a party to whom legal advice has previously been given in connection with the assigned case or a party with whom information related to that case has been shared;

(c) Work for which there is no prospect of being able to appear at the place where a hearing is scheduled for the day the work or case is scheduled, or of being able to work according to a set schedule;

(d) If a person is not a person with professional competence or experience in a specific area of law, work in such an area in the capacity of such a person.

43. Working Fairly

A lawyer acting on behalf of the state in a criminal or administrative matter shall work in such a way that their work does not result in the punishment of an innocent person or cause injustice.

44. Determining Fees

In charging or determining fees for work assigned to a lawyer, the following shall be taken into consideration:

(a) The time to be spent on the work, the skills required, and the number of assistants;

(b) The size, nature, and type of the assigned work;

(c) Whether other work has to be abandoned or the acceptance of it has to be postponed due to accepting the work;

(d) The fee commonly charged for that type of work;

(e) If the dispute in the case arises from a transaction of money or property, the proportion of money or property involved in the case;

(f) The benefit that the client will receive as a result of the work;

(g) Whether the work is assigned by a new client or by a party that commonly assigns cases;

(h) The period of time the lawyer accepting the case has spent in the profession and their experience.

45. Determined Fee to be Known

The work and fee agreed upon between the lawyer and the client in accordance with Articles 40 and 44 of this Act shall be known in writing.

46. Respecting the Court

(a) Lawyers shall, in respecting the courts and in their general work and life, set an example, respect the dignity and honor of the courts, and maintain and protect public trust in the courts.

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this article, expressing scholarly opinions on the decisions of the courts and the principles on which they are based in appealing court decisions and in conducting scholarly research related to the field of justice, and expressing opinions for the purpose of strengthening the justice system shall not be considered as disrespecting the court or contempt of court.

47. Misrepresenting the Truth

In connection with a case pending in court, one must not mislead the court or intentionally conceal anything.

48. General Dealings

Lawyers shall deal with any person with respect, fairness, and honesty.

49. Disclosing Interests

During the period a lawyer is working on a case, they shall disclose to the client the relationship they have with the opposing party or their lawyer in the case, and if there is any matter that could hinder proceeding with the case fairly, they shall provide information on that matter to the client.

50. Not to be a Lawyer in a Situation Where One May Become a Witness

If a lawyer believes that there is a situation where they may become a witness in a case, they shall not work as a lawyer in such a case.

51. Advising the Client

The lawyer shall, to the extent possible, encourage their client not to do things that the lawyer themselves should not do. In particular, they shall encourage them not to do any act that may disrespect a court, a tribunal, or any other place, and not to do any act that may hinder working with respect and fairness towards any party involved in the case. And if the client does such a thing, the lawyer may withdraw from continuing the work of that client.

52. Being a Guarantor or Surety

In any case pending in court, no lawyer shall become a guarantor or surety for their client.

53. Power to Regulate the Conduct of Lawyers and the Lawyer-Client Relationship

In addition to the principles stated in this Act, the Bar Council is empowered to make regulations regarding the conduct of lawyers and the relationship between a lawyer and a client. In the regulations so made, the Bar Council shall strive to achieve the following:

(a) To protect the rights of all persons involved in the legal field;

(b) To protect the rights of clients seeking the assistance of lawyers, and the rights of the lawyer within the relationship with the client;

(c) To work to maintain public trust in the legal field;

(d) To ensure that the integrity of the legal field is maintained, and to ensure that services are provided in accordance with professional standards.

53-1. Disciplinary Matters of State Lawyers

(a) The disciplinary rules prescribed in this Act and the regulations made under this Act shall apply to all lawyers practicing in the Maldives. However, state lawyers shall be accountable to the state institution to which they belong in relation to the responsibilities they perform in their official capacity to represent the state.

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this article, "state lawyers" refers to the lawyers appointed by the Attorney General or the Prosecutor General to perform their respective responsibilities.

54. Investigating Disciplinary Matters of Lawyers

(a) If a lawyer violates a principle or a code of conduct stated in this Act to be upheld by lawyers, or a principle or a code of conduct stated in a regulation made under Article 53 of this Act regarding the conduct of lawyers and the relationship between a lawyer and a client, and if the act they are accused of committing is an act contrary to the principles and rules that they must adhere to as a lawyer to uphold the foundations of the legal profession and the principles of establishing justice, and is an act that undermines the credibility of the legal profession, a complaint against that lawyer may be submitted to the Bar Council.

(b) The right to submit a complaint under subsection (a) of this article is granted to every person. And such matters may also be investigated by the Bar Council on its own initiative.

(c) A matter under subsections (a) and (b) of this article shall be investigated only if the act the lawyer is accused of committing is an act contrary to the principles and rules that they must adhere to as a lawyer to uphold the foundations of the legal profession and the principles of establishing justice, and is an act that undermines the credibility of the legal profession.

55. Complaint Investigation Procedure

(a) In a situation where the Bar Council is investigating a matter as specified in Article 54 of this Act, the Bar Council is empowered to form a panel consisting of 3 (three) members from among the members of the Bar Council's Disciplinary Committee to investigate that matter. And that committee is empowered to investigate the matter to ascertain its facts and to take statements from the parties involved in the matter.

(b) The panel formed under subsection (a) of this article shall remain in existence until the matter being investigated by the committee is investigated and the committee's recommendation is sent to the Executive Committee of the Bar Council.

(c) The Bar Council shall form a complaint investigation panel and send a complaint related to a lawyer for investigation only if there are reasonable legal grounds for submitting such a complaint.

(d) After a complaint concerning a lawyer as mentioned in this article is investigated by the Bar Council's complaint investigation panel, the report of that matter, along with the panel's recommendation, shall be submitted to the Executive Committee of the Bar Council at the earliest possible opportunity.

(e) The Bar Council is empowered to include in the lawyers' regulations the procedures on how the Bar Council's complaint investigation panel will investigate a complaint concerning a lawyer as mentioned in this article and to enforce it.

56. Due Process

Cases submitted to the Bar Council shall be investigated with reasonable speed, in accordance with the principles of procedural fairness.

57. Reporting

The interviews held and the documents considered for the purpose of investigating the cases submitted to the complaint investigation panel shall be recorded and sent to the Executive Committee of the Bar Council along with the committee's report.

58. Power to Obtain Evidence and Documents

The complaint investigation panel is empowered to order persons related to the case it is investigating to appear to give evidence or to submit documents. The lawyer against whom the complaint is made shall be given the opportunity to respond to the documents so submitted and to question the witnesses produced.

59. Opportunity to Present One's Own Defense

The lawyer against whom the complaint is made has the option to appoint a lawyer to represent them in order to defend against the complaint. And the complaint investigation panel shall disclose to that lawyer the identity of the person who submitted the complaint, the complaint that was submitted, and the information that the complaint investigation panel has obtained in relation to that matter. Any kind of action shall be taken after investigating the complaints in this manner only after giving the person against whom the complaint is made the opportunity to respond, and with transparency and equality.

60. Taking Action by Considering the Report of the Complaint Investigation Panel

(a) After reviewing the report sent by the complaint investigation panel, the Executive Committee of the Bar Council is empowered to determine that the complaint is a baseless complaint. And if the Bar Council determines that the complaint is a complaint for which there is sufficient evidence and a basis, the Bar Council is empowered to act in one of the following ways:
(1) Give advice;
(2) Give a warning;
(3) Impose a fine not exceeding MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand);
(4) Suspend the license for a specified period;
(5) Revoke the license to practice law.

(b) In a situation where the Bar Council takes action against a lawyer in the manner specified in subsection (a) of this article, the Bar Council is empowered to take the most appropriate measure from among the measures specified above, taking into account the gravity of the act committed by the lawyer.

(c) If a lawyer is dissatisfied with a measure taken against them by the Bar Council in accordance with this article, they have the right to submit the matter to the Appeals Committee of the Bar Council within 30 (thirty) days from the date the decision is made.

(d) After submitting the matter to the Appeals Committee in the manner specified in subsection (c) of this article, if one is dissatisfied with the decision made by that committee, the matter may be submitted to the High Court of the Maldives for appeal within 15 (fifteen) days from the date the decision is made.

Chapter Six
Practice and Partnership of Lawyers

61. Practice of a Lawyer as an Individual

(a) If a lawyer wishes to practice as an individual, they shall do so by registering a sole proprietorship under Law No. 19/2014 (Sole Proprietorship Act).

(b) A sole proprietorship registered under subsection (a) of this article shall, in addition to being registered under Law No. 19/2014 (Sole Proprietorship Act), be a sole proprietorship registered with the Bar Council. Sole proprietorships registered with the Bar Council under this article shall be called "Legal Practices" for the purposes of this Act.

62. Law Firm Formed by a Partnership

(a) If lawyers wish to provide legal services jointly, they shall provide such services through a partnership formed by those lawyers under Law No. 13/2011 (Partnership Act).

(b) A partnership referred to in subsection (a) of this article shall, in addition to being registered under Law No. 13/2011 (Partnership Act), be a partnership registered with the Bar Council. Partnerships registered with the Bar Council under this article shall be called "Law Firms" for the purposes of this Act.

(c) 80% (eighty percent) of the shares of partnerships registered as specified in this article shall be owned by lawyers who have been granted a license to practice law under Article 30(a) of this Act.

63. Not to Provide Services Other Than Through a Law Firm or a Law Practice

After the commencement of this Act, no person shall engage in the work of providing legal services in the Maldives except through a law firm or a legal practice. However, this article does not prohibit the provision of legal services with the assistance of a lawyer by an in-house counsel in a state institution or a private entity, or as an employee of such an entity, or by a voluntary non-governmental organization, or the provision of services by a lawyer in such an organization.

64. Registering the Information of Partners

A corporate profile of the partners of the partnerships established to provide legal services under this Act shall be registered with the Bar Council.

65. Regulations Regarding Law Firms and Legal Practices

The Bar Council is empowered to formulate and make regulations on the manner in which law firms established on the principle of partnership and legal practices established as sole proprietorships shall be conducted for the purpose of providing services in the legal field.

Chapter Seven
Transitional Matters

66. Continuation and Renewal of a License to Practice Law

(a) Persons who are licensed to practice law in the Maldives at the time of the commencement of this Act shall be considered as lawyers licensed under this Act.

(b) Persons who are not licensed to practice law at the time of the commencement of this Act shall apply for a license to practice law in the manner prescribed in this Act.

67. Harmonization of the Curricula of Courses Taught in Higher Education Institutions

(a) After the commencement of this Act, all legal courses and programs started by higher education institutions in the Maldives shall be conducted in accordance with a curriculum accredited by the Bar Council.

(b) In order to achieve the purposes stated in subsection (a) of this article, within a period of no later than 180 (one hundred and eighty) days from the date of the election of the Executive Committee of the Bar Council under this Act, the Council shall determine and inform the higher education institutions that conduct legal courses and programs in the Maldives of a curriculum that the Bar Council accepts for teaching in such courses and programs.

(c) The Maldives Qualifications Authority shall consider the curriculum accredited by the Bar Council as the minimum standard when accrediting all legal courses, programs, and certificates conducted by higher education institutions in the Maldives.

68. Registration of Law Firms and Legal Practices

Legal entities and individuals providing legal services registered in the Maldives at the time of the commencement of this Act shall be registered in the manner prescribed in this Act within 180 (one hundred and eighty) days from the commencement of this Act.

69. Election of a Lawyer to the Judicial Service Commission

(a) The lawyer elected to the Judicial Service Commission under Article 158(m) of the Constitution shall be a lawyer elected from among the members of the Bar Council.

(b) Upon the commencement of this Act, the membership of the member elected to the Judicial Service Commission under Article 158(m) of the Constitution at the time of the commencement of this Act shall come to an end.

(c) The first election to elect the lawyer to be elected to the Judicial Service Commission under subsection (a) of this article shall be held within a maximum of 15 (fifteen) days from the date of the election of the Executive Committee of the Bar Council elected under this Act.

70. Financial Matters

The financial assistance required to hold the election that must be held under this chapter and to carry out the necessary activities for the commencement of the work of the Bar Council shall be arranged and provided by the ministry in charge of conducting the financial affairs of the state within 30 (thirty) days from the commencement of this Act.

71. Commencement of the Application of a Regulation

If a matter stated in an article of this Act can be applied only after the formulation of a regulation stated in that article, that article shall be applied after the regulation stated in that article is published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

Chapter Eight
Other Matters

72. License to Work as Public Notaries

(a) Unless otherwise stated in any other law, a person may work as a public notary in the Maldives and affix a true copy stamp only if they are a lawyer who meets the conditions specified in the regulations made under this Act.

(b) For the purpose of this article, the Bar Council shall formulate the conditions for working as a public notary and the main principles that such persons must follow.

(c) If any person works as a public notary without being licensed under this Act, or engages in the work of affixing a true copy stamp, or acts contrary to the main principles that a public notary must follow in the regulations made under this Act, that person shall be fined an amount between MVR 25,000 (twenty-five thousand) and MVR 300,000 (three hundred thousand).

(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this article, this article does not prevent the affixing of a true copy stamp by the following places for the following purposes:
(1) Official offices and registered educational institutions affixing a true copy stamp on a document issued by them;
(2) The diplomatic missions of the Maldives in foreign countries affixing a true copy stamp on official documents or educational certificates issued to Maldivian citizens for use in those countries.

73. Schedule

Schedule 1 of this Act is a part of this Act. This Act is complete with the inclusion of that schedule.

74. Invalidation of Procedures in Force Before the Commencement of the Act

All regulations and procedures that were in force regarding the issuance, suspension, and revocation of a license to practice law in the Maldives before the commencement of this Act are hereby invalidated upon the commencement of this Act.

75. Making and Enforcing Regulations

(a) Unless otherwise specified in this Act, all regulations that must be made under this Act shall be made and enforced by the Bar Council.

(b) The regulations that must be made under this Act shall be made by the Bar Council and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives within 90 (ninety) days from the date of the election of the Executive Committee of the Bar Council elected under this Act.

76. Date of Commencement of the Act

This Act shall commence on the date of its passage, ratification, and publication in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

77. Definitions

Unless the context in which a phrase or word is used in this Act clearly indicates otherwise, the following phrases and words shall have the meanings given below:

(a) "Legal work" or "legal assistance" or "providing legal services" refers to the following:
(1) Giving advice and consultation in connection with any dispute or the application of the law;
(2) Practicing in courts, tribunals, and other such places and representing any party in connection with any dispute or any other matter, not including appearing in such places on behalf of a person.
(3) Preparing claim forms, answer forms, statements, and other documents that need to be prepared in connection with cases submitted to courts, tribunals, and other such places;
(4) Preparing agreements to be contracted between various parties, wills, powers of attorney, and other such legal documents related to civil transactions;
(5) Doing the work of preparing and attesting documents that need to be prepared as a public notary;
(6) Attesting various documents on a commercial basis.

(b) "Major criminal offense" refers to the offenses specified in Article 22 of Law No. 12/2016 (Criminal Procedure Act).

(c) "A non-practicing lawyer" refers to persons included in the register determined and published by the Department of Judicial Administration as lawyers who are unable to practice law due to being appointed as a judge from among the lawyers.

(d) "Public notary" refers to any lawyer authorized by the Bar Council under this Act to verify and confirm the identity of persons signing legal documents, to ensure that the persons signing such documents understand their contents, to witness the signing of such documents by those persons, and to do other things necessary to confirm the authenticity of such documents.

(e) "Members of the Bar Council" refers to lawyers who are licensed to practice law at the time of the commencement of this Act and lawyers who are licensed under this Act.

Schedule 1
Oath of Lawyers

"I, ....... (name of the person) ..., do solemnly swear by Almighty Allah to respect the religion of Islam, to uphold the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of the Maldives, to protect the rights of the people, and to remain steadfast in performing the duties and responsibilities of a lawyer with honesty and integrity, in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of the Maldives."
