Law on the Transitional Period of Governance

Short Title and Introduction

1.
(a) This is the law that sets out the procedures to be followed during the transitional period of governance.

(b) This law shall be cited as the "Law on the Transitional Period of Governance."

Assistance to be Provided

2.
Upon the request of the person elected to the office of the President of the Republic and the person elected to the office of the Vice President of the Republic, the Director General of Transition shall provide the following expenses and services:

(a) To provide a suitable office for the use of the President-elect and all necessary equipment for that office;

(b) To provide the necessary staff for the office and to arrange the salaries and allowances payable to such staff;

(c) To provide, when necessary, the full assistance of various technical experts and associations, and to provide the salaries and allowances payable to such persons;

(d) To provide for food and drink, and a suitable place of residence, or the expenses incurred for it, and the expenses for rent and travel;

(e) To provide for all expenses required for communication and correspondence;

(f) The National Defence Force shall provide security and protection to the President-elect at the same level as the security and protection provided to the President. And in determining the procedures to be followed in this matter, the advice of the Committee on Security Services of the People's Majlis shall be sought.

Circumstances for Receiving Allowances in Addition to Salary

3.
If an employee appointed under this law is an employee of another state institution, and if the salary and allowances for the post or work performed under this law are greater than the salary and allowances paid to such an employee by that office, such person shall be paid the higher of the two salaries.

Period during which expenditure may be incurred

4.
No money shall be spent under this law for any expenses incurred by a person elected to the office of the President of the Republic and the office of the Vice President of the Republic before the announcement of the results of the election in which they contested or after assuming office.

Amount that may be expended

5.
(a) A maximum of 1 million Rufiyaa may be spent under this law. And the Minister of Finance and Treasury shall include the money to be spent in this manner in the budget for the year in which a presidential election is to be held.

(b) No money other than the money included in the budget under this law shall be spent from the state budget for the affairs of the change of term.

Coordinating Authority

6.
The matters to be done under this law shall be organized and supervised by the Director General of Transition.

Appointment of the Coordinating Authority

7.
The Director General of Transition shall be appointed by the Civil Service Commission at the request of the person elected to the office of the President of the Republic.

Date of Commencement

8.
This law shall come into force on the date of its passing and publication in the Government Gazette.
