Law on Determining the Capital of Administrative Divisions

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This is the law governing the determination of the capital island for administrative divisions other than Male', as specified in Schedule 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives, and the principles for changing the capital island of such administrative divisions.

(b) This law shall be cited as the "Law on Determining the Capital of Administrative Divisions."

Purpose

2.
The purpose of this law is to facilitate the determination and relocation of the capital island of the administrative divisions specified in Schedule 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives, excluding Male', in accordance with the policies, principles, regulations, and standards of a law passed by the People's Majlis. This is to be done in a democratic manner, based on the decision of the people of that administrative division.

Capital Island

3.
(a) Each administrative division, apart from Male', as defined in Schedule 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives, shall have a designated capital island.

(b) At the time of the commencement of this Act, the details of the islands designated as the capital islands of the administrative divisions, as per subsection (a) of this Article, are set out in the Schedule to this Act.

Principles for Determining the Capital Island

4.
The following factors shall be considered in their totality when changing the capital island of an administrative division specified in this law to another island:

(a) The time and distance required for the people of the islands within the administrative division to travel to the island being considered for designation as the capital island.

(b) The lagoon of the island being considered for designation as the capital island shall be suitable for mooring and maneuvering vessels.

(c) The island being considered for designation as the capital island shall have the potential to become the developmental hub of its administrative division.

(d) The island being considered for designation as the capital island shall be an island where land required for the establishment of developmental facilities, and other services and amenities, are readily available or can be easily developed.

(e) The population of the island being considered for designation as the capital island shall be of a proportion that facilitates the economic and social progress of its administrative division.

Changing the Capital Island

5.
The capital island of an administrative division, as determined under this law, shall be changed in accordance with the following principles:

(a) If the Atoll Council of an administrative division deems it important to designate a particular island as the capital island of that administrative division, after considering the aggregate result of the matters specified in Article 4 of this law, a document containing the relevant details shall be prepared by the Atoll Council and made available to all the people of the islands within that administrative division.

(b) After making the document specified in subsection (a) of this Article available to the people of the islands within the administrative division, the Atoll Council of that administrative division shall consult with the island councils, women's development committees, development-oriented parties, and civil society organizations within that administrative division.

(c) Following the consultations specified in subsection (b) of this Article, the designation of that island as the capital island of that administrative division shall be passed by a two-thirds majority of the total members of the Atoll Council.

(d) Following the passing of the motion as specified in subsection (c) of this Article, a general secret ballot of the people of that administrative division shall be conducted through the Elections Commission to determine whether the people of that administrative division support the matter.

(e) The decision shall be supported by a vote of more than 50 (fifty) percent of the valid votes cast in the secret ballot specified in subsection (d) of this Article.

Prohibition on Changing the Capital Island

6.
(a) After the commencement of this Act, the capital island of an administrative division may be changed in accordance with this law only after the first election of the Atoll Councils, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives.

(b) During the period between the commencement of this Act and the first election of the Atoll Councils as specified in the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives, the capital island of any administrative division shall not be changed under this law.

Amending the Schedule

7.
(a) If the people of an administrative division decide to change the capital island of that administrative division, in accordance with the principles set out in Article 5 of this law, the relevant changes shall be made to the Schedule of this law by an announcement published in the Government Gazette.

(b) Upon the publication of the announcement specified for publication in the Government Gazette as per subsection (a) of this Article, the amendment to the Schedule of this law shall be deemed to have been made.

Formulation and Implementation of Regulations

8.
The regulations required to be made under this law shall be made and implemented by the Minister. The regulations required to be made under this law shall be made and publicly announced within a maximum of 2 (two) months from the date of ratification of this law.

Commencement of the Law

9.
This law shall come into force on the date of its passing, ratification, and publication in the Government Gazette.

Definitions

10.
Unless otherwise stated in this law, the following terms and phrases shall have the meanings given below, in relation to those terms and phrases.

(a) "Administrative division" refers to the administrative divisions other than Male', as specified in Schedule 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives.

(b) "Minister" refers to the Minister of Home Affairs, or the Minister responsible for the atolls on behalf of the Maldivian government, or the head of that ministry.

(c) "Atoll Council" refers to the Atoll Council as specified in Article 230 (b) of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives.[1]

(d) "Island Council" refers to the Island Council as specified in Article 230 (b) of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives.[1]

(e) "Election" refers to the election of the Atoll Council and the Island Council held under the law that is required to be introduced under Article 231 (d) of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives.

(f) "Elections Commission" refers to the Elections Commission as specified in Article 167 (a) of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives.[1]

Schedule
Administrative Divisions and Capital Islands

The islands specified in this schedule are the islands that were the governing capitals of the administrative divisions specified in Schedule 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives at the time of the ratification of the Constitution on 7 August 2008.
Administrative Division	Official Name	Capital Island
Haa Alif	Thiladhunmathee Uthuruburi	Dhidhdhoo
Haa Dhaalu	Thiladhunmathee Dhekunuburi	Kulhudhuffushi
Shaviyani	Miladhunmadulu Uthuruburi	Funadhoo
Noonu	Miladhunmadulu Dhekunuburi	Manadhoo
Raa	Maalhosmadulu Uthuruburi	Ungoofaaru
Baa	Maalhosmadulu Dhekunuburi	Eydhafushi
Lhaviyani	Faadhippolhu	Naifaru
Kaafu	Male' Atoll	Thulusdhoo
Alif Alif	Ari Atoll Uthuruburi	Rasdhoo
Alif Dhaalu	Ari Atoll Dhekunuburi	Mahibadhoo
Vaavu	Felidhe Atoll	Felidhoo
Meemu	Mulaku Atoll	Muli
Faafu	Nilandhe Atoll Uthuruburi	Nilandhoo
Dhaalu	Nilandhe Atoll Dhekunuburi	Kudahuvadhoo
Thaa	Kolhumadulu	Veymandoo
Laamu	Hahdhunmathi	Fonadhoo
Gaafu Alif	Huvadhu Atoll Uthuruburi	Vilingili
Gaafu Dhaalu	Huvadhu Atoll Dhekunuburi	Thinadhoo
Gnaviyani	Fuvahmulah	Fuvahmulah
Seenu	Addu Atoll	Hithadhoo
