Law on the Prohibition of Gang Crimes

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This is the law to prohibit the formation and operation of gangs, and the commissioning of various crimes by forming gangs in the Maldives, and to determine the penalties for such crimes.

(b) This law shall be cited as the "Law on the Prohibition of Gang Crimes".

Gang Membership and Leadership

2.
(a) It is an offense to form or operate a gang for the purpose of carrying out illegal acts, or to be a member of a gang.

(b) It is an offense to lead any gang or to perform the role of a leader.

(c) The penalty for a person who commits an offense under subsection (a) of this section is imprisonment for a term of not less than 1 (one) year and not more than 5 (five) years.

(d) The penalty for a person who commits an offense under subsection (b) of this section is imprisonment for a term of not less than 2 (two) years and not more than 7 (seven) years.

Displaying Gang Membership

3.
(a) It is an offense for any person, by word, act, expressed phrase, or any kind of displayed sign, or in any other way, to show that they are a member of a gang.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an offense under subsection (a) of this section is imprisonment for a term of not less than 6 (six) months and not more than 18 (eighteen) months.

Disclosing Gang Information and Symbols

4.
(a) It is an offense to create a website containing information about any gang, or to disseminate information using any means of communication or the internet, or to draw, affix, place, or display a symbol, seal, logo, or any such thing belonging to a gang in any place, or to import any such thing into the Maldives.

(b) A name or logo belonging to a gang shall not be registered for an association, organization, shop, restaurant, hotel or similar place, company, or any other place registered under a law.

(c) The penalty for a person who commits an offense under subsection (a) of this section is imprisonment for a term of not less than 6 (six) months and not more than 18 (eighteen) months.

Parties Providing Financial Assistance

5.
(a) It is an offense to provide financial and material assistance to gangs formed to commit various criminal offenses and to the members of such gangs.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an offense under subsection (a) of this section is a fine of between MVR 50,000/- (fifty thousand Rufiyaa) and MVR 500,000/- (five hundred thousand Rufiyaa), together with imprisonment for a term of not less than 3 (three) years and not more than 7 (seven) years.

Intimidation of Witnesses

6.
(a) It is an offense to threaten to cause or to cause harm or injury to that person or any other person in order to prevent them from giving information or testimony to a court or a law enforcement authority regarding any gang or a member of a gang.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits the offense of making a threat under subsection (a) of this section is imprisonment for a term of not less than 6 (six) months and not more than 18 (eighteen) months.

(c) The penalty for a person who commits the offense of causing or inflicting harm or injury under subsection (a) of this section is imprisonment for a term of not less than 3 (three) years and not more than 7 (seven) years.

Recruitment

7.
(a) It is an offense to make any effort to find any person to join a gang or to participate in a gang or a gang's activities.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an offense under subsection (a) of this section is imprisonment for a term of not less than 6 (six) months and not more than 18 (eighteen) months.

Designating a Gang's Territory

8.
(a) For the purpose of establishing a specific area as a gang's territory, it is an offense for any person to remain or loiter in any place for a specific period, or at a specific time, or at a specific hour, or without any specified period, time, or hour, if a relevant government authority has ordered them not to be present or loiter in that place.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an offense under subsection (a) of this section is imprisonment for a term of not less than 6 (six) months and not more than 18 (eighteen) months.

Revocation of Registration

9.
If it is proven in court that a name, association, organization, or sports club registered under the law has been used as a front to conduct any act or activity prohibited under this law, the relevant authority has the power to revoke the registration of that name, association, organization, or sports club.

Manufacturing, Selling, Giving, and Possessing Weapons for Gang Use

10.
(a) It is an offense to manufacture, sell, give, possess, or import into the Maldives a weapon or anything that can be used as a weapon for the use of a gang.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an offense under subsection (a) of this section is imprisonment for a term of not less than 1 (one) year and not more than 5 (five) years.

Collective Intimidation

11.
(a) It is an offense for three or more persons to be together and threaten to attack another.

(b) At the time such a threat as mentioned in subsection (a) is made, it is an offense for everyone present at the scene who shows their approval of the attack.

(c) The penalty for a person who commits an offense under subsection (a) of this section is imprisonment for a term of not less than 1 (one) year and not more than 3 (three) years.

(d) The penalty for a person who commits an offense as described in subsection (b) is imprisonment for a term of not less than 6 (six) months and not more than 18 (eighteen) months.

Trespassing on a Person's Land

12.
(a) It is an offense to enter a person's land, or house, or building, or shop, or any other such place, or to board a vehicle for the purpose of committing a crime.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an offense under subsection (a) of this section is imprisonment for a term of not less than 6 (six) months and not more than 18 (eighteen) months.

Drawings Symbolizing a Group or Gang

13.
If drawings symbolizing gangs or various groups are found on the walls of houses or in public places, the Maldives Police Service[1][2] and Councils have the authority to erase such drawings or to paint over them without the permission of the owner of the place.

Money, Property, and Items Obtained Through Crime

14.
(a) If it is proven in court that property, money, and items were obtained by operating a gang, such property, money, and items shall be confiscated by the state under this law.

(b) If a person is suspected or charged with an offense stated in this law, a judge may order the seizure of the property, money, and items suspected of being obtained by committing that offense until the case is decided by the court, or to prevent them from being removed from the person's custody, or to prevent any transaction with them, or to place them in the custody of a specific party.

(c) If a person is suspected of an offense stated in this law, the Maldives Police Service has the authority to seize the money, property, and items suspected of being obtained by committing that offense until the matter is brought before the court and a judge makes a decision, as per subsection (b) of this section.

Committing Assault by Forming a Gang

15.
(a) It is an offense to commit any of the acts described below:

(1) Planning to commit assault by forming a gang or group;

(2) Committing assault by forming a gang or group;

(3) Participating in an assault committed by a gang or group.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits the offense described in subsection (a)(1) of this section is imprisonment for a term of not less than 3 (three) years and not more than 5 (five) years.

(c) The penalty for a person who commits the offenses described in subsections (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section is imprisonment for a term of not less than 6 (six) years and not more than 12 (twelve) years.

(d) "Assault" in this section refers to the acts defined as assault in the Penal Code of the Maldives.[3][4]

Public Nuisance

16.
It is a public nuisance for any gang or any group to assemble in any building or place to commit an illegal act or to plan an illegal act, or to prepare to commit such an act by forming a gang or a group. And under a court order, the persons specified in the order may be prohibited from entering that building or place for the period specified in the order.

Civil Liability

17.
(a) Every member of a gang, individually and jointly, shall bear civil liability for any damage caused to any party by a gang or a member of a gang or an accomplice of a gang in planning, attempting to commit, committing, or assisting in an illegal act by forming a gang or a group.

(b) Every accomplice of a gang and every party that bears the expenses for the care of a member of a gang shall bear the civil liability mentioned in subsection (a) of this section in accordance with that subsection.

Precedence of this Law

18.
If the offenses, penalties, and matters specified and stated in this law conflict with the offenses, penalties, and matters prescribed by another law, precedence shall be given to the offenses, penalties, and matters specified and stated in this law.

Withholding of Certain Rights

19.
(a) Any person serving a sentence under this law may be granted parole or have their sentence reduced in any other way only after serving two-thirds of the sentence.[5]

Special Protection

20.
Persons detained on suspicion of an offense stated in this law, persons detained during the trial stage in connection with such an offense, and persons serving a sentence after being convicted of such an offense shall be brought to any center for medical treatment during their period of detention with adequate security and in the company of an officer from the relevant authorities.

Making and Enforcing Regulations

21.
(a) The regulations to be made under this law shall be made and enforced by the Ministry of Home Affairs.[6][7] And those regulations shall be made and completed within 4 (four) months from the date this law comes into force. And before such a regulation comes into force, it must be submitted to the National Security Committee of the People's Majlis.[8][9]

(b) Subsection (a) of this section shall not prevent the Ministry of Home Affairs from amending a regulation made under subsection (a) or from making an additional regulation under this law after the period mentioned in that subsection if the need arises. Even if such a change is made in this manner, the change must be submitted to the National Security Committee of the People's Majlis.

Commencement of this Law

22.
This law shall come into force on the day it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.[10][11]

Definitions of Words and Phrases

23.
Unless otherwise expressly stated in this law;

"Gang" refers to groups and factions formed by three or more persons, where the main activity of that association or group includes the commission of criminal offenses.

"Accomplice" refers to any natural or legal person who knowingly assists a gang or any member of a gang or benefits from the illegal activities of a gang or any member of a gang.

"Threatening" in Section 6 of this law refers to directly approaching a person and giving a warning, or using communication means such as SMS, e-mail, fax, phone call, or any other method, or writing and disclosing a letter or a note, or writing on a wall or a similar place and stating that any degree of harm or injury will be inflicted upon a person's body or property or a family member.

"A gang's territory" in Section 8 of this law refers to places where people generally gather to plan and commit gang crimes and group assaults. This includes alleys, plots of land, and vacant buildings that are under the control of groups in a manner that causes nuisance to individuals walking and living in those areas, as well as public parks and other public gathering places, and land and sea vessels and objects where such persons are active.

For the purpose of Section 10 of this law, "weapon" refers to;

    Any type of knife;

    Swords and daggers;

    Razor blades, cutters, and cutter blades;

    Billhooks, machetes, crowbars, and clubs;

    Iron, rods, wood, and other such objects that are sharpened or have a pointed end;

    Iron pipes, studded planks, wooden planks, and cudgels;

    Chain links, wires, wire ropes, tie clips, and chain links and fetters prepared for fastening on various limbs, and similar items;

    Explosives and flammable substances;

    Taser guns, stun guns, and any other device that sends a shock to a person's body, temporarily incapacitating them;

    Items made to explode at a certain time and items for which a specific method of explosion has been planned;

    Land vehicles modified to be startlingly loud;

    Poison and poison gas;

    Dangerous biological or chemical substances, dangerous acids, and radioactive materials;

    Any other thing that can cause injury to a person or damage to a place.
