Law on Special Measures against Persons who Commit Sexual Offences against Children

Part One
Introduction and Purpose

1. Introduction and Title

(a) This is the law that sets out the special procedures for keeping persons who sexually abuse children in custody during the investigation and trial stages, for monitoring them within a specific system even after their release, for allowing a more lenient standard for the admission of evidence in court, and for obtaining compensation for the harm caused by sexual abuse of children.

(b) This Law shall be cited as the "Law on Special Measures against Persons who Commit Sexual Offences against Children".

2. Purpose

The purpose of this Law is to achieve the following objectives:

(a) To protect the children of the society from persons who may pose a danger to them, and to maintain that protection by keeping persons who sexually abuse children in custody during the investigation and trial stages, and by ensuring that they are monitored within a specific system even after they are released from their punishment.

(b) For the State to continuously control and monitor persons who sexually abuse children.

(c) In addition to the types of evidence admissible in court, to permit other types of evidence to prove the sexual abuse of children, and to lower the standard of evidence that is admitted.

(d) To impose severe punishments on persons who sexually abuse children and those who assist in such acts.

(e) To obtain compensation for the harm caused to children by sexual abuse.

(f) To create a way for the public to know about persons who sexually abuse children.

(g) To not request the child to demonstrate in court, through actions, movements, or any other means, how the sexual abuse occurred or was carried out.

Part Two
Defining Offences

3. Committing a Sexual Act with a Child

(a) It is an offence for a person to intentionally touch the body of a child with sexual intent.

(b) For the purpose of this Article, touching with sexual intent means touching in any of the following ways:

(1) Touching the child's genitals, or anus, or any other sexual organ, or a place that is considered to be an area for obtaining sexual pleasure.
(2) Touching directly with one's hand, or through an object.

(c) A person who is convicted of the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article shall be sentenced to imprisonment for a term of 10 to 14 years.

4. Causing a Child to Participate in a Sexual Act

(a) It is an offence for a person to cause a child to participate in a sexual act.

(b) The punishment for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 10 to 14 years.

5. Committing a Sexual Act in the Presence of a Child

(a) It is an offence for a person to intentionally commit a sexual act in the presence of a child, or to commit such an act in a way that is visible to a child, or with the intention of showing it to a child, or by committing the act believing that a child will see it.

(b) The punishment for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 7 to 10 years.

6. Forcing to Watch a Sexual Act

(a) It is an offence for a person to force a child to watch a sexual act being committed, or to show a child a scene, photograph, film, or a scene from a film of a sexual act being committed, or to make a child listen to the sound of such an act.

(b) The punishment for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 7 to 10 years.

7. Children Committing Sexual Offences

(a) Even if a child commits an offence stated in Article 3, Article 4, Article 5, or Article 6 of this Law, that child is also committing an offence.

(b) If the child mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article is 13 years of age or older, the punishment shall be confinement for a period not exceeding 5 years in a place suitable for the confinement of children. If the child was under 13 years of age when the offence was committed, the punishment shall be house arrest for a period not exceeding 5 years, on the condition that the child is looked after by a guardian.

8. Aiding and Abetting a Child to Commit a Sexual Act

(a) It is an offence for a person to intentionally plan, aid, abet, arrange, facilitate, or encourage a child to commit an offence stated in Article 3, Article 4, Article 5, or Article 6 of this Law.

(b) The punishment for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 7 to 10 years.

9. Committing a Sexual Act from a Position of Trust

(a) It is an offence for a person in a position of trust to a child to commit a sexual act with that child.

(b) The punishment for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 15 to 18 years.

10. Causing a Sexual Act to be Committed from a Position of Trust

(a) It is an offence for a person in a position of trust to a child to cause that child to commit a sexual act.

(b) The punishment for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 15 to 18 years.

11. Committing a Sexual Act in the Presence of a Child from a Position of Trust

(a) It is an offence for a person in a position of trust to a child to commit a sexual act in the presence of that child with the intention of showing it to the child.

(b) The punishment for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 15 to 18 years.

12. Causing a Child to Watch a Sexual Act from a Position of Trust

(a) It is an offence for a person in a position of trust to a child to show the child a scene of people committing a sexual act, or to force the child to watch the scene, or to do so in a way that the child can see it, or in circumstances where it is reasonable to believe that the child is watching or may watch, or to knowingly tell or force a child to go to or enter a place where such an act is being committed by people.

(b) The punishment for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 15 to 18 years.

13. Positions of Trust

For the purposes of this Law, a person is considered to be in a position of trust to a child if the following relationships exist between the person and the child:

(a) A parent of the child.
(b) A legal guardian of the child.
(c) A guardian of the child.
(d) A person with whom marriage is not permissible in Islam.
(e) A person who is providing a service to or looking after a child in accordance with a law.
(f) A person in charge of a place where a child is detained under a sentence or for investigation.
(g) A person of the household where a child is placed.
(h) A person from a hospital, clinic, or a place that provides services to children, such as a childcare center.
(i) A person of the household where a child lives.
(j) A person from the place where a child is receiving education.
(k) A person from the place where a child is employed or learning a vocational skill.
(l) A person in a position who is required to give guidance and advice to a child.
(m) A person entrusted with the care of a child.

14. Exception of Marriage

If a person is married to a child in accordance with Islamic principles, even if an act that could be considered a sexual offence under this Law is committed within the marital relationship, it shall not be considered an offence for the purposes of this Law.

15. Committing a Sexual Act with a Family Member

(a) It is an offence for a person to commit a sexual act with a child who is a member of his or her family.

(b) The punishment for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 20 to 25 years.

16. A Family Member Encouraging a Child to Commit a Sexual Act

(a) It is an offence for a family member to encourage a child in his or her family to commit a sexual act.

(b) The punishment for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 20 to 25 years.

17. Committing a Sexual Act with a Child for a Price

(a) It is an offence for a person to commit a sexual act with a child for a price, or if the act was committed after making the child believe that a price would be given to the child before the act was committed.

(b) The punishment for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 15 to 21 years.

(c) For the purpose of this Article, "giving a price" means giving a financial benefit or a monetary benefit. It also includes paying a price that the child is obliged to pay on the child's behalf, buying something the child needs to buy, paying for a service the child wants, giving money as a gift, or giving something of monetary value.

18. Making Pornography or Prostituting Children

(a) It is an offence for a person to intentionally cause a child to prostitute, or to involve the child in the making of pornography, or to make pornography in a way that a sexual organ of the child is exposed and visible.

(b) The punishment for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 20 to 25 years.

19. Forcing into Prostitution and Making Pornography

(a) It is an offence for a person to force a child, or to control a child, or to hold a child in a way that deprives the child of his or her freedom, and to cause the child to prostitute or to participate in the making of pornography.

(b) The punishment for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 20 to 25 years.

20. Committing a Sexual Act by Intoxication

(a) It is an offence for a person to commit or cause to be committed a sexual act with a child by giving the child an intoxicating substance, or a substance that can impair the child's own thinking power, or a substance that can cause the child to lose his or her own self-control.

(b) For the purpose of this Article, "giving a substance" means giving something to eat or drink, or causing a substance to enter the body in any other way.

(c) The punishment for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 25 years.

21. Entering a House to Commit a Sexual Act

(a) It is an offence for a person to enter a house where a child is, or a place where a child is at the time, with the intention of committing a sexual act with the child.

(b) For the purpose of this Article, the meaning of "a house" or "a place" includes a building and the premises adjoining the building. It also includes land vehicles and sea vessels.

(c) The punishment for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 1 to 10 years.

22. Exposing a Sexual Organ

(a) It is an offence for a person to show a child any part of his body that is considered a sexual organ, or to stand with a sexual organ exposed in a way that is visible to a child from outside the clothes he is wearing.

(b) The punishment for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 3 years.

23. Committing an Offence by More than One Person

(a) If an offence stated as a crime in this Law is committed with a child by more than one person, acting together with the same intention or purpose, each of them shall be considered to have committed the crime individually with the child, even if each person participated in the act to a different extent.

(b) The punishment for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 20 to 25 years.

Part Three
Consent

24. Children Under Thirteen Years of Age

A child under the age of 13 shall not, under any circumstances, in any way, be considered to be in a position to give consent to the commission of a sexual act for the purposes of this Law. Even if he or she gives consent, it is a void consent for the purposes of this Law.

25. Children Over Thirteen Years of Age

Unless proven otherwise, a child between the ages of 13 and 18 shall not be deemed to have consented to the commission of a sexual act. And unless proven otherwise, it shall be considered that the sexual act was committed without the consent of the child.

Part Four
Restriction of Certain Rights

26. Restriction of Certain Rights Granted by the Constitution

Of the rights granted by the Constitution to a person who is detained or arrested on suspicion of an offence under this Law, the rights specified in the following Articles of this Chapter are restricted to the extent specified in those Articles.

27. Restriction of the Right to Remain Silent

Although Article 48 (n) of the Constitution grants the right to remain silent without giving any information other than identifying oneself, a person who is detained on suspicion of an offence under this Law does not have that right to any extent.

28. Restriction of the Right to be Released from Custody During the Investigation Stage

Although Article 49 of the Constitution states that no person shall be kept in custody before a court sentence, except for the purpose of preventing the person from concealing evidence in the case in which he is involved, or from influencing a witness, or for fear that he may not appear in court, or for fear that he may flee, or for fear that his release may pose a danger to the safety of the society, if a person is suspected of an offence under this Law, it shall be considered that his release may pose a danger to the safety of the society, and that he may try to conceal evidence or influence a witness, and for the purpose of enabling a judge to order that he be kept in custody until the end of the investigation and trial stages, that right is restricted to that extent for the purposes of this Law.

29. Consideration of Article 16 of the Constitution in Restricting Rights

(a) The fundamental rights stated in Articles 27 and 28 of this Law are restricted under Article 16 (b) of the Constitution.

(b) In determining whether those rights are restricted to that extent under this Law in accordance with Article 16 (b) of the Constitution, the court shall consider that the People's Majlis has, in restricting those fundamental rights to that extent under this Law, taken into account the 6 points stated in Article 16 (n) of the Constitution.

Part Five
Detention

30. Requesting a Detention Order

(a) When the police deem it necessary to act in accordance with the special procedures provided by this Law in respect of a person suspected of an offence under this Law, the Commissioner of Police may request the Prosecutor General to apply to the court for an order to keep the person arrested on suspicion of committing an offence under this Law in custody until the end of the investigation and trial stages.

(b) When a request as stated in subsection (a) of this Article is submitted to the Prosecutor General in a letter signed and sent by the Commissioner of Police, the Prosecutor General shall, after examining it by the standards that the Prosecutor General is required to examine, submit the case to the court requesting such an order at the earliest possible opportunity.

31. Matters to be Proven by the Prosecutor General

In a case submitted by the Prosecutor General to the court requesting an order under Article 30 of this Law, the Prosecutor General shall prove the following matters to the court:

(a) The necessity of keeping the person suspected of the offence in custody in order to protect the children in the society.

(b) That if the person suspected of the offence is not kept in custody, he may repeat such an offence, or conceal evidence in the case, or attempt to influence witnesses.

32. Matters to be Considered by the Court

In a case submitted under Article 30 of this Law to keep a person in custody during the investigation and trial stages, the court shall consider the following matters before making an order:

(a) The opinion of experts in the fields of health, psychology, and psychiatry on the matter.
(b) The offence committed by the person suspected of the crime.
(c) The condition and age of the child who has been harmed as a result of the offence committed by the person suspected of the crime.
(d) Whether the offence was committed by a person in a position of trust to the child or not.
(e) Whether the person suspected of the offence has been accused of such an offence in his past or not.
(f) The extent to which he has assisted in the investigation of the offence.
(g) The criminal record of the person suspected of the offence.
(h) The magnitude of the proportion to which it is believed that the person suspected of the offence may commit another offence, or conceal evidence, or influence witnesses, if not kept in custody during the investigation and trial stages.
(i) Other evidence, circumstances, and situations relevant to the case.

33. Issuing a Provisional Order

(a) When a case is submitted to the court under Article 30 of this Law, the court has the power to issue a provisional order to keep the person suspected of the offence in custody for a maximum period of 30 days during the investigation stage, until the court decides on the matter.

(b) If the investigation of the case is not fully completed by the time 30 days have passed while the person suspected of the offence is in custody, even after the necessary actions have been taken in the area of investigation in an appropriate manner, the court has the discretion to extend the period of his custody, for a period not exceeding an additional 30 days.

(c) Within the period extended under subsection (b) of this Article, the court shall expeditiously hear and decide on the case submitted by the Prosecutor General under Article 30 of this Law.

34. Matters that the Court May Request

If the court deems it necessary, in hearing a case submitted under Article 30 of this Law, it may appoint a psychiatrist or a person who works for the protection of children, and request a report from that person to clarify his or her opinion on the matter.

35. Detention Order

(a) If the court deems it necessary to keep a person in custody during the investigation and trial stages, the court may issue an order to keep him in custody.

(b) The order stated in subsection (a) of this Article shall terminate upon the conclusion of the first stage of the criminal trial or upon the annulment of the order by the court that issued it.

(c) When issuing an order as stated in subsection (a) of this Article, the reasons on which the court relied to issue the order shall be stated in detail.

36. Reviewing the Order

(a) If the court notes that the period of detention of a person under an order made to keep him in custody until the end of the investigation and trial stages has become too long, or if a case is submitted to the court by the person's guardians, the court shall review the case.

(b) In reviewing a case under subsection (a) of this Article, information shall be clarified regarding the work done on the case so far, the time spent on the case, and the manner in which things are being done with respect to the person suspected of the offence. This shall be done in a judicial session in the presence of the police and the person suspected of the offence.

(c) When the court reviews a case under subsection (a) of this Article, if it finds that the person suspected of the offence is not a person who needs to be kept in custody during the investigation and trial stages, or that the circumstances that existed when the order for his detention was made have now changed, or if the court finds that there is no longer any need to maintain the order in that way, the court has the power to annul the order at that point.

Part Six
Supervision Order

37. Requesting a Supervision Order

(a) Even if a person has been convicted of the offence of committing a sexual act with a child and has completed serving the sentence for that offence, the State may apply to the court for an order for the State to supervise him, in order to prevent any harm that the offender may cause to the society, or to another child, or if he is a person who has committed a sexual act with a child of his own family, or with his own biological child, in a way that does not facilitate the commission of such a sexual act with a child until his own biological children reach the age of 18.

(b) A request for an order as stated in subsection (a) of this Article shall be made by the Prosecutor General within 6 months after the offender's sentence is completed, within that 6-month period.

(c) When submitting a request for an order as stated in subsection (a) of this Article, the Prosecutor General shall submit to the court a written statement from a licensed psychiatrist, psychologist, or doctor stating that it can be reasonably believed that he may commit such an offence again.

(d) After the case is submitted to the court, the Prosecutor General shall deliver a copy of the submitted case to the offender to whom the case is addressed and to his guardian within 7 days of the submission of the case to the court.

(e) If there is any evidence, document, or other information prepared for submission to the court in a case under subsection (a) of this Article, a copy of it shall also be delivered by the Prosecutor General to the party to whom the case is addressed and to the guardian.

38. Hearing the Case upon a Request for a Supervision Order

(a) The court shall decide on the matter within a maximum of 45 days from the submission of a request for an order as stated in Article 37 of this Law.

(b) If the court, upon examination, finds that it is most appropriate to issue an order for the State to supervise him, and if the case is more inclined that way, it may order the following types of persons to be used to ascertain what they think about him and to inform the court, and the court may order the offender to provide assistance in their work.

(1) Two psychiatrists and a criminologist.
(2) Two psychologists and a criminologist.
(3) A psychiatrist, a psychologist, and a criminologist.
(4) Two psychiatrists, two psychologists, and a criminologist.

39. Issuing and Not Issuing an Order

(a) If, after considering the statements submitted by the party mentioned in Article 38 (b) of this Law, it is not found that he is a person who is likely to commit such an offence again, the case shall be brought to an end at that point. And such an order shall not be made.

(b) If, after considering the submissions made by the party mentioned in Article 38 (b) of this Law, they state that they believe he is likely to commit another offence, the court may order the State to supervise the offender for a period of up to 3 years, in accordance with certain procedures.

(c) When 6 months have passed since the 3-year period for which an order was made under subsection (b) of this Article has elapsed, the State has the discretion to act again in accordance with Article 37 of this Law.

40. Matters to be Considered When Issuing an Order

Before issuing an order for the supervision of an offender under Article 38 of this Law, in addition to the matters that the court will normally consider, the court shall consider the following matters:

(a) Maintaining the safety of the society in that manner.
(b) The information conveyed by the statements of the psychiatrists, psychologists, or criminologist appointed by the court.
(c) The extent to which the offender assisted the persons appointed by the court.
(d) The matters noted by the psychiatrists, psychologists, or criminologist.
(e) The rate at which offences have been repeated, based on the general statistics and general history of persons who have committed similar offences as the offender, or based on their past.
(f) If the offender has participated in any kind of rehabilitation program to reform, that fact, or if he has requested to participate in such a thing, that fact, or if he is proceeding with participation in such a thing, the rate at which he is participating.
(g) The criminal record of the offender.
(h) Other factors that may suggest that he may commit a second sexual offence.

41. Commencement Date of a Supervision Order

(a) An order for the supervision of an offender made by the court under Article 39 (b) of this Law shall commence from the later of the date on which the order is made or the date on which the custody he is currently in comes to an end.

(b) The order stated in subsection (a) of this Article shall terminate upon the expiry of the period specified in the order.

(c) When an order as stated in subsection (a) of this Article is made, a corrections officer appointed for that purpose by the authority in charge of prisoners' affairs shall be in charge of enforcing the order on behalf of the State.

42. Including Conditions in a Supervision Order

When the court makes an order for the supervision of an offender, the order may also be made to include a condition or conditions from among the following conditions. And the court may also order the offender to act in accordance with those conditions.

(a) The corrections officer in charge of the offender visiting the offender's home at a time and for a duration determined by the officer.
(b) Requiring the offender to meet with his assigned corrections officer at specific intervals.
(c) The offender informing the corrections officer of any change in his address.
(d) The offender participating in a specific treatment or rehabilitation program determined by the authority in charge of prisoners' affairs or by the court.
(e) The offender not going to certain places and not being seen in certain places.
(f) The offender not residing in certain places.
(g) The offender not meeting with certain people.
(h) The offender not attempting to contact certain people or a certain class of people.
(i) The offender not committing certain kinds of acts or certain types of acts.
(j) The offender not holding a certain type of job or not holding certain types of jobs.
(k) Not changing his name.

43. Violating a Supervision Order

(a) It is an offence to violate the conditions of a supervision order or to violate the order.

(b) The punishment for the person who commits that offence is imprisonment for a maximum of 2 years.

44. Responsibilities of Psychiatrists

Every psychiatrist appointed to examine an offender, or a person suspected of an offence under this Law, shall include the following matters in his report:

(a) The likelihood of him committing a sexual act with a child if he is not kept within a supervision system.

(b) The reasons why the psychiatrist sees it that way.

45. Obtaining and Receiving Information

(a) If a psychiatrist requests any health report, psychiatric report, report prepared by a prison, or any other report or information that he deems may be important for his work in connection with a report that he is required to prepare under this Law, the authority in charge of prisoners' affairs shall obtain that report or information for him.

(b) If information is requested under subsection (a) of this Article from a person who has it for the purposes of this Law, it is a matter that this Law makes it mandatory for that person to give or release that information.

(c) A matter that any other law makes it mandatory to keep secret shall not apply to the matters that are required to be done under this Law to the extent necessary to achieve the purpose of this Law.

Part Seven
Trial Procedures

46. Rights Related to the Court Session

There is no hindrance to the following rights, which are available to the offender, or the person suspected of the offence, in a court session under any Article of this Law:

(a) The offender defending himself in his personal capacity or through a lawyer.
(b) Presenting witnesses.
(c) Giving testimony.
(d) One party questioning the witnesses presented by the other party through the judge.
(e) Submitting other documents that need to be submitted to the court.

47. Standard of Evidence

Notwithstanding that another law may state otherwise regarding the standard of evidence required to prove a criminal offence or the type of evidence admissible in court, for the purposes of this Law or in a prosecution brought under this Law, to prove that a person has committed a sexual act with a child, or to prove an offence under this Law, if there is evidence of at least five types from among the following types of evidence, that evidence shall be considered to be evidence obtained to the extent required to prove to the court beyond a reasonable doubt that a person has committed an offence, as stated in Article 51 (h) of the Constitution.

(a) An official document proving that a sexual act has been committed with a child.
(b) The results shown by scientific analyses.
(c) The testimony of eyewitnesses.
(d) Evidence obtained from forensic signs and analyses.
(e) Evidence obtained from video recordings.
(f) A statement given by the child to his or her parents, or a close relative, or a friend, or a doctor, or a health worker, or a psychologist, or a psychiatrist, or a police officer investigating the case, or a person working in the service of protecting children, very soon after the incident occurred or without many days passing between the incident and the statement.
(g) A statement in which the child has described how things happened to him or her or how the incident took place.
(h) A narrative given by a child without any reason to believe that it is a made-up or newly fabricated story about a person, or without a long period of time having passed between the time of the incident and the time the story was told.
(i) The consistency between what the child says and the physical harm to the child that is noted medically and the things that are noted in forensic analyses.
(j) The person who committed the sexual act with the child having been proven to have previously committed a sexual act.
(k) Physical evidence.
(l) The story told by the child when interviewed by the investigating authority.

48. How to Obtain the Testimony of a Child

For the purposes of this Law, if the testimony of a child is to be obtained, the testimony of that child shall be obtained by interviewing the child outside the court, outside the court session, outside the police office, in an environment familiar to the child, in the presence of people who are familiar to the child and whom the child trusts, and by video recording the interview, or if the child is a child with special needs, by interviewing the child in the presence of a person who is capable of translating what the child says, in the presence of people who are familiar to the child and whom the child trusts, and by video recording the interview.

Part Eight
Some General Principles

49. Exemption from Liability

A person who, in good faith and with the intention of enforcing this Law, does something stated in this Law in the manner stated, without any malicious intent and without any intention to cause harm to a particular person, shall not be held legally responsible for any act he has done or for any omission.

50. Non-application of Parole and Bail Principles

The principles of bail or parole shall not apply to a person who is in custody under this Law.

51. Compensation for Damages

(a) If it is proven against a person that he has committed a sexual act with a child, a separate civil case may be filed in court to seek monetary compensation for the physical harm suffered by the child, for the expenses incurred in providing medical treatment to the child and for his recovery, for the psychological harm suffered by the child, and for the fear that the child has faced.

(b) The evidence required to prove a case as stated in subsection (a) of this Article shall be the judgment of the court that has been proven against the offender.

52. Matters for which Compensation may be Sought

(a) In a civil claim for compensation made under Article 51 of this Law, the following matters are included among the individual matters for which monetary compensation may be sought:

(1) The physical harm suffered by the child.
(2) Compensation for the expenses incurred for the physical harm suffered by the child.
(3) Compensation for the psychological harm suffered by the child.
(4) Compensation for the harm suffered as a result of the fear and distress faced by the child.
(5) The value of the change in the way people in society view him or her in his or her early years.

(b) In determining the amount of compensation to be received by the child in a claim stated in subsection (a) of this Article, the court shall consider the following matters:

(1) The child's age.
(2) The child's opportunity for education.
(3) The child's opportunity to become a responsible citizen.
(4) The extent of the psychological harm suffered by the child.
(5) The expenses that the child will have to incur to live a normal life.
(6) The proportion of expenses that the child's parents or guardians can afford.
(7) The class and status of the child's family in society.
(8) The class and status of the child in society.

53. Knowingly Not Reporting

(a) It is an offence to knowingly fail to report to the police information that an act stated as a crime in this Law is happening, has happened, or is about to happen.

(b) The punishment for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term of 6 months to 3 years.

54. Protection

This Law does not permit the publication in the media of the details of a child who has been the victim of an act stated as a crime in this Law, or the release of those details by the authority that has the information. The court sessions of a prosecution under this Law shall also be held without being open to the public.

55. Providing Counselling

For a child who is a victim of a crime defined as an offence in this Law, counselling that is needed to alleviate all the psychological difficulties that may be faced and to live as a responsible citizen shall be provided at the expense of the government, in accordance with a procedure arranged by the government.

56. Arranging for Expenses

In caring for a child who is a victim of a crime defined as an offence in this Law, if the child's parents or a guardian need financial assistance, that assistance shall be provided in accordance with procedures determined by the government.

57. Publishing the Register of Offenders

The information of persons who commit crimes defined as offences in this Law shall be published publicly. And for the safety and protection of other citizens from such offenders, and in order to not give an opportunity that facilitates the repetition of such an act, a system shall be established to have the complete information of such offenders publicly available on an internet website in an easily viewable manner, and also to easily identify them through the use of their Maldivian identity card number via the Short Message Service (SMS) using a mobile device. This shall be done by the state institution that works for the protection of children.

58. Making and Enforcing Regulations

The regulations that need to be made under this Law shall be made and enforced by the Attorney General. And those regulations shall be published publicly within 6 months from the date this Law comes into force.

59. Commencement of the Law

This Law shall come into force on the date it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

60. Definitions

Unless otherwise stated in this Law, the following phrases and words are given the meanings given below in relation to those phrases and words:

(a) "A person" means a person who has reached the age of 18 and is of sound mind.

(b) "A child" means a child who has not reached the age of 18 in the Gregorian calendar since birth. And the meaning of a child includes, among children with special needs, children and persons who, although they have reached the age of 18, are mentally incompetent.

(c) "Sexual intent" means a decision made to do a particular thing to satisfy a lustful desire, or an act done to achieve that purpose.

(d) "Sexual act" means an act, whether it be intercourse, touching, or the commission of any other act, which, when considered from the perspective of a reasonable person, would be believed to have been done with the intention of achieving a lustful desire, or an act for which there is no reason to believe that it was committed in the circumstances in which it was committed to achieve a purpose other than a lustful purpose.

(e) "Consent" means a person having the status of being able to choose what he or she wants or a matter of his or her own free will, in his or her freedom, or the status of being able to choose a way or a matter.

(f) "In the presence of the child" means to commit a sexual act in the presence of a child with the purpose of showing it to the child.

(g) "Family" means persons who have a family relationship with a child in one of the following ways:

(1) A mother, a father, a grandfather, or a grandmother, a great-grandfather, or a great-grandmother; or
(2) A full sibling, or a half-sibling by the same mother, or a half-sibling by the same father; or
(3) An aunt, or a great-aunt, or an uncle, or a great-uncle; or
(4) A male who becomes a brother or a female who becomes a sister due to being breastfed by the same woman; or
(5) In addition to the parties mentioned above, other persons to whom legal guardianship is entrusted.
