Law on the Protection and Benefits for a Person who has Served as President

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This is the law that specifies the honor, dignity, adequate protection, financial benefits, and other benefits that must be provided to a person who has held the highest office of the state, if they have left the office legally without being convicted of a crime, as they are entitled to these under the Constitution, for persons who have vacated the office of the President.

(b) This law shall be cited as the "Law on the Protection and Benefits for a Person who has Served as President."

Highest Dignitaries of the State

2.
(a) As stated in Article 1(a) of this law, a person who has vacated the office of the President is included among the highest dignitaries of the state.

(b) In officially addressing a person who has vacated the office of the President, the title "President" may be used before their name.

Financial Benefit

3.
(a) A person who has served one term as President shall be given a monthly financial benefit of MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand) by the state. And a person who has served more than one term as President shall be given a monthly financial benefit of MVR 75,000 (seventy-five thousand) by the state.

(b) If a person who has served as President dies, their spouse shall be given the financial benefit stated in subsection (a) of this Article by the state until they remarry or for the rest of their life.

(c) If a person who has served one term as President and is receiving the financial benefit under subsection (a) of this Article is elected to the office of the President for a second term, they shall not receive the financial benefit under subsection (a) of this Article until they vacate the office.

Cost of Living Accommodations

4.
To cover all expenses for the living accommodations of a person who has served as President, the state shall provide up to MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand) per month.

Protection and Security

5.
A person who has served as President, and their spouse, shall be provided with a reasonably high level of protection and security by the Maldives National Defence Force, befitting a person who has held the office of the President. In determining the procedures for this, the advice of the Parliamentary Committee on National Security Services shall be sought.

Transportation

6.
For a person who has served as President, and their spouse, land transportation facilities on the island where they reside in the Maldives shall be provided at the state's expense by the Maldives National Defence Force. And if traveling by air, transportation facilities between their island of residence in the Maldives and the airport shall also be provided at the state's expense by the Maldives National Defence Force.

Health Services

7.
A person who has served as President, and their spouse, shall be provided with health services from within the Maldives and abroad at the state's expense.

Office Running Costs

8.
For a person who has served as President to carry out socially beneficial community work, should they wish to do so, the state shall provide up to MVR 175,000 (one hundred and seventy-five thousand) per month to arrange for an office, staff, and other related matters.

Review of Benefits Determined Under this Law

9.
(a) The monetary amounts of the benefits determined under this law shall be reviewed by the People's Majlis at least once every three years, and it shall be determined whether the amounts need to be revised in relation to the increase in the price of goods and services during that period.

(b) Notwithstanding the provision in subsection (a) of this Article, in the event of an economic recession in the country which necessitates a reduction in state expenditure, the government has the discretion to make changes to the benefits determined to be given to a person who has served as President under this law. And if such a change is necessary, the government may submit the matter to the People's Majlis for its consultation before making such a change.

Non-receipt of Benefits Due to a Criminal Offense

10.
From the moment a President is convicted by a court of a criminal offense committed while in office, they and their spouse shall not receive any of the protection and benefits afforded under this law.

Commencement of the Law

11.
This law shall come into force on the date it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

12.
Notwithstanding the provision in Article 10 of this law, all benefits afforded by this law shall be provided starting from the date the Constitution of 2008 came into effect, which is August 7, 2008.

Definitions

13.
Unless otherwise stated in this law;

(a) "A person who has vacated the office of the President" refers to persons who have legally vacated the office of the President without being convicted of a crime, due to the expiry of the term of office of the President or due to resignation from the office of the President, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives. This definition also includes persons who have vacated the office after serving as President under Article 300(a) of the Constitution.

(b) In providing the financial benefit payable under this law to the wife of a person who has vacated the office of the President, if the person who has vacated the office of the President has more than one wife, the total amount specified to be given in this law shall be divided equally among all such wives.

(c) Where the singular is used in this law, it may be interpreted as the plural, and where the plural is used, it may be interpreted to imply the singular.
