Law on Prohibition of Importation to the Maldives

Introduction

    This law pertains to items completely prohibited from importation into the Maldives, the prohibition of their production and possession within the Maldives, and items that are prohibited from being imported, produced, or possessed in the Maldives without a special permit. This law shall be cited as the "Law on Prohibition of Importation to the Maldives."

Items Prohibited from Importation Except for State Use

2.
(a) The importation of the following items into the Maldives is prohibited, except for the use of the State.
(1) Weapons of war
(2) Gunpowder
(3) Explosives

(b) Method of Importation for State Use
The items specified in subsection (a) of this article may be imported into the Maldives for the use of the State only by the Ministry of Defence and National Security.

(c) Production
The items specified in subsection (a) of this article may be produced in the Maldives only by the Ministry of Defence and National Security.

(d) Possession
The items specified in subsection (a) of this article shall be possessed in the Maldives by persons designated by the Ministry of Defence and National Security, in accordance with regulations made by the said Ministry.

(e) Procedure upon Finding or Discovering
If any item specified in subsection (a) of this article is found adrift, anchored, or in a manner where its owner or possessor is unknown, or if found being possessed or kept by an unauthorized person, the person who finds it must promptly inform the Ministry of Defence and National Security or a party designated by the Ministry. If such an item is found, the person who found it must, without delay, hand it over to the Ministry of Defence and National Security, or the nearest Atoll Office, or Island Office.

(f) Vessels Traveling with Weapons
Any vessel or aircraft of any type arriving in the Maldives or transiting through the territory of the Maldives with any item specified in subsection (a) of this article shall enter the territory of the Maldives only after obtaining permission from the Ministry of Defence and National Security and in accordance with regulations established by the said Ministry.

Weapons Imported in Connection with Dignitaries

    Article 2 of this law does not prevent the Ministry of Defence and National Security from granting permission for the importation into the Maldives of weapons of war that are essential in connection with the honor or security of foreign dignitaries, or swords, daggers, and similar items that are part of the uniform of high-ranking military officials of foreign states or part of the national dress of a foreign country.

Items Completely Prohibited from Importation into the Maldives

    The importation, production, possession, sale, giving, and distribution of the following items in the Maldives is completely prohibited.

(a) Books, magazines, newspapers, and similar materials containing text or illustrations contrary to the principles of Islam, and tapes, diskettes, and similar items containing such stories and scenes, and items that are derogatory to the religion of Islam. This does not include items imported for scholarly purposes with written permission from the Ministry of Justice and Islamic Affairs.

(b) Idols used for worship

(c) Pornographic material

(d) Live pigs

Items Prohibited from Importation without a Special Permit

5.
(a) The following items shall be imported into and possessed in the Maldives only with a special written permit from the Ministry of Defence and National Security, and in accordance with regulations established by the said Ministry.
(1) Dogs
(2) Dangerous animals
(3) Dangerous chemicals not classified as explosives, and acids and various types of poisons produced from such chemicals
(4) Fog signals, fireworks, firecrackers
(5) Explosives that the Ministry of Transport and Communication determines are essential to be carried on vessels for search and rescue purposes
(6) Spearguns for fishing or killing fish

(b) The following items shall be imported into and possessed in the Maldives in accordance with regulations established by the Ministry of Trade and Industries.
(1) Alcohol
(2) Pork and products derived from pork

(c) The production in the Maldives of the items listed in subsections (a)(1), (a)(2), and (b) is prohibited.

(d) The items listed in subsections (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5), and (a)(6) may be produced in the Maldives only with a written permit from the Ministry of Defence and National Security.

Importation of Related Items

    Even if an item is not explicitly stated in this law as prohibited for importation into the Maldives, if the head of Customs deems an item to be of a nature described in this law, the head of Customs has the authority to detain the item without release and to decide on the matter in consultation with the relevant authority among those specified in this law and with their advice.

    This law does not prevent a vessel from entering a Maldivian port or transiting through Maldivian territory carrying items that are required to be kept on board under an international treaty to which the Maldives is a party.

Seizure of Illegally Imported Items

    If any item specified in this law is imported into the Maldives in contravention of this law, or is found being possessed in the Maldives, it shall be seized without compensation.

Presumption of Importation or Production if Origin Cannot be Proven

    When an item specified in this law is found in the possession of a person in the Maldives, if that person cannot prove how the item was obtained, it shall be presumed to be an item that the person imported into the Maldives or produced in the Maldives.

Seizure of Money and Property Obtained from Illegally Imported or Produced Items

    If any property or money is obtained by importing into the Maldives or producing in the Maldives any item specified in this law in contravention of this law, that property or money shall be seized, in addition to the imposition of penalties prescribed under this law.

Disposal of Items Requiring Disposal

    The disposal of items specified in this law that require disposal shall be the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence and National Security.

Prohibition by Other Laws

    This law does not prevent another law from prohibiting the importation into the Maldives of items other than those stated in this law as being completely prohibited or prohibited for import except with a special permit from a specific authority.

Penalties

13.
(a) Any person who, in contravention of this law, imports into the Maldives or produces in the Maldives an item specified in Article 2(a)(1), (2), (3) of this law shall be punished with imprisonment, or banishment, or house arrest for a term of 10 to 15 years.

(b) Any person who, in contravention of this law, possesses, carries, gives, or sells an item specified in Article 2(a)(1), (2), (3) of this law shall be punished with imprisonment, or banishment, or house arrest for a term of 5 to 10 years.

(c) Any person who imports into the Maldives, or produces in the Maldives, or possesses, carries, gives, sells, or distributes an item specified in Article 4(a) and (b) of this law shall be punished with imprisonment, or banishment, or house arrest for a term of 3 to 8 years.

(d) Any person who imports into the Maldives, or produces in the Maldives, or possesses, carries, gives, sells, or distributes an item specified in Article 4(c) and (d) of this law shall be punished with imprisonment, or banishment, or house arrest for a term of 3 months to 3 years, or a fine of between MVR 1,000 and MVR 50,000.

(e) Any person who, in contravention of this law, imports into the Maldives, or produces in the Maldives, or possesses, carries, gives, or sells an item specified in Article 5(a) of this law shall be punished with imprisonment, or banishment, or house arrest for a term of 6 months to 2 years, or a fine of between MVR 5,000 and MVR 50,000.

(f) Any person who produces in the Maldives an item specified in Article 5(b) of this law, or who, in contravention of this law, imports, possesses, carries, gives, or sells such an item, shall be punished with imprisonment, or banishment, or house arrest for a term of 1 to 3 years, or a fine of between MVR 1,000 and MVR 5,000.

Definitions

    In this Law:
    (a) The definition of "weapons of war" shall include the following items:
    (1) All types of weapons capable of firing a projectile or missile.
    (2) Bullets, gun cartridges.
    (3) Parts of weapons designed to reduce the sound or light resulting from the use of a weapon as described in (a)(1) and (2) of this article, or to facilitate the aiming of such a weapon.
    (4) Weapons designed to discharge any poison.
    (5) Swords, lances, arrows, bows.
    (6) A part of a weapon specified in this article, or a vessel or device designed to carry such a weapon.

(b) The definition of "explosives" shall include the following items:
(1) Nitroglycerin, dynamite, and similar substances.
(2) Rockets, gun cartridges, and all types of bombs, projectiles, and fuses and similar items used to detonate such items.
(3) Items designated as explosives by the Ministry of Defence and National Security due to a substance contained within them.

(c) The definition of "pornographic material" shall include photos and films showing sexual organs, audio and stories depicting sexual intercourse, films and photos showing scenes of sexual intercourse, and diskettes, tapes, and similar media containing such scenes, sounds, and stories, and items made to represent sexual organs for the purpose of sexual intercourse. This does not include academic books and materials used for teaching and education that are approved by the Ministry of Education.
