Law on Controlling the International Trade of Endangered Species

Chapter One
Introduction

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This is a law concerning the establishment of principles for the trade and transport of endangered and threatened species, as well as their parts and derivatives, in order to protect and sustain them from the threat of extinction due to unsustainable international trade.
(b) This law shall be cited as the "Law on Controlling the International Trade of Endangered Species."

Purpose

    The purpose of this law is to establish the necessary principles for the national-level implementation of the matters stipulated in the international convention on the trade of endangered species, in a manner that achieves the following objectives:
    (a) To establish principles for controlling the trade and transport of species listed in the international convention on the trade of endangered species, or any part or derivative thereof, in order to protect and sustain them.
    (b) To prohibit the import, export, re-export, and introduction from the sea of species, or any part or derivative thereof, listed in the Convention into the Maldives in contravention of this law, and to establish a system for taking action against those who commit such acts.
    (c) To establish other regulations and principles to be followed in halting the unsustainable or illegal trade of species, or any part or derivative thereof, listed in the Convention.
    (d) To establish robust standards for action to be taken after the seizure of items prohibited from being imported into the Maldives under the Convention.

Chapter Two
Implementation of the Law and its Scope

Authorities for Implementing the Law

    This law shall be administered and implemented by the Management Authority, the Scientific Authority, and the Enforcement Authority, as designated under this law.

Scope of the Law

    This law shall apply to the species, or any part or derivative thereof, listed in Appendices I, II, and III of the Convention, as reproduced in Schedules 1, 2, and 3 of this law.

Species Included in the Schedules

5.
(a) The Schedules 1, 2, and 3 of this law, as mentioned in Article 4 of this law, shall include the following species as detailed in Appendices I, II, and III of the Convention.
(1) Schedule 1 (Species included in Appendix I of the Convention, which are threatened with extinction by trade); this schedule shall include species threatened with extinction whose trade is prohibited except in special circumstances.
(2) Schedule 2 (Species included in Appendix II of the Convention, which are at risk of extinction due to trade); this schedule shall include species that are not currently threatened with extinction but may become so in the near future if their trade is not controlled.
(3) Schedule 3 (Species that member countries of the Convention have determined to control the trade of due to being threatened with extinction); this schedule shall include species not included in Appendices I and II of the Convention, but which a member country of the Convention has determined to require control of their international trade due to being threatened with extinction in that country.
(b) If any amendment is made to any of the Appendices of the Convention mentioned in paragraph (a) of this Article, the corresponding changes to the schedules of this law shall be published by the Management Authority in the Government Gazette of the Maldives within a maximum of 10 (ten) days from the date of the amendment to the Appendix of the Convention.

Chapter Three
Authorities Implementing the Law

Management Authority

    For the purposes of this law, the Management Authority shall be the government agency designated by the President of the Republic as the focal point agency for the Maldives for the international convention on the trade of endangered species.

Responsibilities of the Management Authority

    Unless otherwise expressly stated in this law, the responsibilities of the Management Authority are as follows.
    (a) To issue permits for species or any part or derivative thereof, and to establish the conditions for the issuance of such permits, in accordance with the principles set forth in the Convention.
    (b) To consult with the Secretariat of the Convention and with other countries regarding administrative, scientific, and other matters related to the implementation of the Convention.
    (c) To maintain records of the trade of species listed in Schedules 1, 2, and 3 of this law, to prepare a related report annually, and to submit the report to the Secretariat of the Convention before October 31 of the following year.
    (d) To submit all reports and information required to be sent by the Maldives under the Convention, and to conduct other related transactions in accordance with the prescribed procedures.
    (e) To share with the Secretariat of the Convention and with other countries party to the Convention, the administrative, legal, and enforcement measures taken in relation to the implementation of the matters stipulated in the Convention, as well as other related issues.
    (f) To prepare a report on the extent of implementation of the Convention and to send it to the Secretariat of the Convention within the period specified in the Convention.
    (g) To consult and coordinate with other government agencies and institutions on matters related to the application and enforcement of the law.
    (h) To seek the advice of the Scientific Authority on matters related to the acceptance of permits, the determination and issuance of quotas, types of trade, and the registration of traders.
    (i) To publicly publish amendments to the schedules of the Convention in accordance with Article 5(b) of this law.
    (j) To represent the Maldives in national and international meetings related to the Convention and to make arrangements for such representation.
    (k) To plan and conduct awareness programs, and to provide education, training, and information related to the Convention.
    (l) To designate a holding facility for items seized by the enforcement agency from among the types of species, or any part or derivative thereof, possessed in contravention of this law, and to determine the course of action for items kept in the holding facility, and to ensure that action is taken in accordance with the determination.
    (m) To carry out other matters determined to be done by the Management Authority under the Convention.
    (n) To make and enforce all regulations and procedures required to be made under this law.

Expeditious Completion of Procedures

    The Management Authority shall establish a system for completing the procedures related to the trade of any item to which this law applies with reasonable speed.

Scientific Authority

    For the purposes of this law, the Scientific Authority referred to in Article 3 of this law shall consist of the following institutions:
    (a) Maldives Marine Research Institute; and
    (b) Environmental Protection Agency.

Responsibilities of the Scientific Authority

    Unless otherwise specified in this law, the responsibilities of the Scientific Authority are as follows:
    (a) To advise the Management Authority after studying the potential harm to the population and environment of a species listed in Schedule 1 or 2 of this law, or any part or derivative thereof, as a result of its export.
    (b) To advise the Management Authority if it appears that the import of a species listed in Schedule 1 of the Convention, or any part or derivative thereof, may cause an adverse change to the natural population of that species.
    (c) To determine whether an importer of a species listed in Schedule 1 of this law, or any part or derivative thereof, has the adequate capability and resources to keep such a living thing, and to inform the Management Authority of this.
    (d) To advise the Management Authority on the disposal of live specimens, or any part or derivative thereof, seized by the enforcement agency for violation of this law.
    (e) To advise the Management Authority in determining the quota for living organisms, or any part or derivative thereof, that can be permitted for import into the Maldives annually under the Convention.
    (f) To advise the Management Authority on important issues for the protection of species.
    (g) To perform other duties assigned to the Scientific Authority under the Convention.

Enforcement Authority

    For the purpose of this law, the Enforcement Authority is the Maldives Customs Service.

Powers and Responsibilities of the Enforcement Authority

12.
(a) Any item to which this law applies shall be maintained by the port operator in accordance with the customs laws and regulations of the Maldives as long as it is in any international port of the Maldives.
(b) An officer of the Enforcement Authority is empowered to seize and take into custody any items related to a suspected violation of this law.
(c) Officers of the Enforcement Authority are authorized to seize and take into custody any item or evidence related to an act prohibited under this law.
(d) Officers of the Enforcement Authority are authorized to inspect and search any place, vehicle, or person related to a situation where there is reasonable evidence to believe that a living thing included in this law, or any part or derivative thereof, is being kept in violation of this law, in accordance with the laws and regulations of the Maldives.
(e) Officers of the Enforcement Authority are authorized to inspect and search any living thing included in this law, or any part or derivative thereof, in situations where there is reasonable suspicion that it is being kept, traded, or transported in violation of this law.
(f) Officers of the Enforcement Authority are authorized to inspect and search the records of any living thing, or any part or derivative thereof, mentioned in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Article.
(g) Officers of the Enforcement Authority are authorized to take photographs, samples, or related items during an inspection conducted under this law.

Chapter Four
Conditions for Trade in Living Organisms

Conditions for Export

13.
(a) When exporting living organisms from the Maldives under this law, the exporter must meet the following conditions:
(1) The party involved in the export transaction for the export of living organisms under this law must be a party to whom a permit for the export of living organisms has been issued by the relevant state institution.
(2) When exporting a living organism, or a part or product thereof, listed in Schedule 1 or 2 of this law, an export permit must have been obtained under Article 17 of this law.
(3) If a living organism, or a part or product thereof, listed in Appendix III of the Convention is a living organism, or a part or product thereof, that the Maldives has included in that schedule, the party must have obtained the necessary permit or Certificate of Origin under this law.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, this law does not prevent the Management Authority from establishing special procedures and additional conditions for export with regard to the types of living organisms exported from the Maldives.
(c) The exported living organisms must be in a condition that meets the health requirements determined by the Scientific Authority.

Import Conditions

14.
(a) When importing living organisms into the Maldives under this law, the importer and the imported items must meet the following conditions:
(1) The type of living organism being imported must be in a condition that meets the health requirements determined by the Scientific Authority.
(2) The type of living organism being imported must be from countries that meet the standards set by the Scientific Authority.
(3) When importing a living animal into the Maldives, the animal must have a State Veterinary Certificate issued by the relevant authority of the exporting country.
(4) If another law or regulation specifies a condition for the import of living organisms into the Maldives, or requires a specific permit, that condition must be met, and a separate permit issued under the conditions of that law or regulation must be held.
(5) If the type of living organism being imported is an item listed in Schedule 1 of this law, the importer must be a party who has obtained an import permit issued by the Maldivian Management Authority and an export permit or re-export permit issued by the Management Authority of the exporting country.
(6) A person importing a type of living organism listed in Schedule 2 of this law into the Maldives must be a person who has obtained an export permit or re-export permit issued by the Management Authority of the exporting country.
(7) When importing an item included in Schedule 3 of this law into the Maldives, if the country from which the item was exported is a country that has included the item in Appendix III of the Convention, the item must have an export permit or a Certificate of Origin issued by that country, or if that country is a re-exporting country, a Certificate of Origin issued by the re-exporting country.
(8) If an item included in Schedules 1, 2, or 3 of this law is being imported, it must not be an item whose import is prohibited under any other law or regulation of the Maldives.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, this Law does not preclude the Management Authority from establishing special procedures and setting additional import conditions for the types of living organisms imported into the Maldives, as specified in the regulations made under this Law.

Conditions for Re-export

15.
(a) When re-exporting living organisms from the Maldives under this law, the re-exporter and the re-exported items must meet the following conditions:
(1) When re-exporting living organisms, the party involved in the export transaction must be a party to whom a permit for the re-export of living organisms has been issued by the relevant government authority.
(2) When re-exporting living organisms from the Maldives, if a specific special law specifies certain conditions, or requires a specific permit, those conditions must be met and the permit must be held.
(3) A person who re-exports a living organism listed in Schedule 1 or 2 of this law, or a part or product thereof, from the Maldives must be a person who has obtained a re-export permit as specified in Article 19 of this law.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, this Law does not prevent the Management Authority from establishing special procedures and setting additional export conditions in the regulations made under this Law, with regard to the types of living organisms re-exported from the Maldives.

Conditions for Introduction from the Sea

16.
(a) When introducing any living organism into the Maldives from the sea, the introducer and the items introduced from the sea must meet the following conditions:
(1) In introducing living organisms from the sea into the Maldives, in addition to fulfilling the conditions specified in a relevant special law or regulation, if a specific special permit is required for the person introducing any such thing from the sea, that person must be the one holding the permit.
(2) A person who introduces from the sea a living organism, or a part or product thereof, included in Schedule 1 or 2 of this law, must be a person who has obtained a permit for introduction from the sea as specified in Article 20 of this law.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, this Law does not prevent the Management Authority from establishing special procedures and setting additional conditions for introduction from the sea in the regulations made under this Law, with regard to the types of living organisms entering the Maldives from the sea.

Chapter Five
Procedures for Export, Import, Re-export and Introduction from the Sea Permits

Conditions for Issuing an Export Permit

17.
(a) A permit to export an item included in Schedules 1, 2, or 3 of this law from the Maldives shall be granted only if the following conditions are met:
(1) The Management Authority is satisfied that the item has been obtained in accordance with the laws and regulations of the Maldives, and the export of the item is not prohibited by any other law or regulation of the Maldives.
(2) The Management Authority is satisfied that the export of living organisms under this law is carried out in accordance with the latest "CITES Guidelines for the Non-Air Transport of Live Wild Animals and Plants", the "Live Animals Regulations", and the "Perishable Cargo Regulations of the International Air Transport Association".
(3) If a living thing included in this law is to be exported, the Management Authority must be satisfied that the export is arranged in a manner that will protect it from harm to its health and that it will not be treated inhumanely.
(4) The Scientific Authority has informed the Management Authority, after ensuring that the export of an item listed in Schedule 1 or 2 of this law will not be detrimental to the natural population of that item.
(5) If the item is listed in Schedule 1 of this law, an import permit issued by the country to which the item is intended to be taken has been obtained.
(b) The maximum period for which an export permit issued under paragraph (a) of this Article may be granted is 6 (six) months from the date of issuance of the permit.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, the Management Authority has the discretion to determine additional conditions for the issuance of an export permit in the regulations made under this law.

Conditions for Issuing an Import Permit

18.
(a) A permit to import an item included in Schedule 1 under this law shall be issued only if the following conditions are met:
(1) The Scientific Authority has assured the Management Authority that the import of the item will not cause harm to its natural population, and that if the imported item is a living thing, the importer is a person who has the full capacity to handle such things in accordance with the regulations made under this law regarding the handling of such things.
(2) The Management Authority is satisfied that the imported living things, or any part or derivative thereof, are not being imported for commercial purposes.
(b) The maximum period for which an import permit issued under paragraph (a) of this Article for a living thing, or any part or derivative thereof, included in Schedule 1 of this law is 6 (six) months from the date of issuance of the permit.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, the Management Authority has the discretion to determine additional conditions for the issuance of an import permit in the regulations made under this law.

Conditions for Issuing a Re-export Permit

19.
(a) A permit for re-export under this law shall be granted only if the following conditions are met:
(1) The Management Authority is satisfied that the imported living things, or any part or derivative thereof, have been imported in accordance with this law.
(2) The Management Authority is satisfied that the re-export of living organisms under this law is carried out in accordance with the latest "CITES Guidelines for the Non-Air Transport of Live Wild Animals and Plants," the "Live Animals Regulations," and the "Perishable Cargo Regulations of the International Air Transport Association."
(3) If live animals covered by this law are to be re-exported, the Management Authority must be satisfied that the arrangements for their re-export are made in a manner that protects them from harm to their health and ensures they are not treated inhumanely.
(4) If the item is included in Schedule 1 of this law, the Management Authority is satisfied that the Management Authority of the country designated for the import of the item has issued a permit for the import of the item into that country.
(b) The maximum validity period of a re-export permit issued under paragraph (a) of this Article is 6 (six) months from the date of issuance of the permit.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, the Management Authority has the discretion to determine additional conditions for the issuance of a re-export permit in the regulations made under this law.

Conditions for Issuing a Permit for Introduction from the Sea

20.
(a) A permit to introduce an item included in Schedule 1 or 2 of this law from the sea shall be granted only if the following conditions are met:
(1) The Scientific Authority has advised that the introduction from the sea will not cause harm to the species of any living thing.
(2) If the living thing is a living thing specified in Schedule 1 of this law, the Management Authority is satisfied that the thing is not being brought for commercial purposes and that the person bringing it has the ability to handle it.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, the Management Authority has the discretion to determine additional conditions for the issuance of a permit for introduction from the sea in the regulations made under this law.

Additional powers granted to the Management Authority regarding the issuance of permits

21.
(a) Before issuing a permit, the Management Authority may, in accordance with the regulations made under this law, request the applicant for the permit to provide any additional information that the Authority wishes to obtain.
(b) After reviewing the matters that the Management Authority is required to review, it may decide to grant the permit, not to grant the permit, or to grant the permit with specified conditions.
(c) A permit issued by the Management Authority shall be void if it is subsequently proved that it was issued on the basis of incorrect information.
(d) The special procedures for dealing with live animals used in traveling zoos, circuses, menageries, botanical exhibitions, or other exhibitions shall be specified in the regulations made under this law.

Regulation of Permit-Related Matters

    The manner of applying for import, export, re-export, and introduction from the sea permits issued under this chapter, the required documents, the renewal of permits, and the procedures for issuing permits shall be specified in the regulations made under this law.

Chapter Six
Registration of Traders and Goods

Registration

23.
(a) The form for applying for registration of items designated for registration under this law, the conditions for registration, and the information to be included in the register shall be determined in the regulations made under this law.
(b) Persons wishing to trade in any item included in Schedule 1 of this law must register with the Management Authority.
(c) Persons who are trading in any item included in Schedule 1 of this law at the time this law comes into effect must register with the Management Authority within 3 (three) months from the date this law comes into effect.
(d) Persons who wish to trade in captive-bred and raised live animals and artificially propagated plants from among the live species included in Schedule 1 of this law must register with the Secretariat of this Convention through the Management Authority.
(e) The persons who keep the living things mentioned in paragraph (d) of this article shall maintain records of those things. The Management Authority is also authorized to inspect the place where such things are kept if it deems it necessary on reasonable grounds.
(f) The Management Authority may, if it deems it necessary on reasonable grounds, determine that living things listed in Schedules 2 and 3 of this law, or any part or derivative thereof, may not be kept or bred, or artificially propagated, except under a special permit and registration.
(g) If a condition of a registered business is not met, the Management Authority has the authority to revoke such registration if the business fails to rectify the matter within the period specified in the regulations made under this law for rectifying the matter.
(h) The trade of a living thing specified in Schedule 1 of this law is only permissible if the living thing was born and kept in a facility registered with the Secretariat of this Convention and if a permanent mark has been placed on it for identification.

Chapter Seven
Transit and Transshipment Procedures and Exemptions

Transit and Transshipment

24.
(a) No additional permit under this law shall be required for live specimens in transit and transshipment, and any part or derivative thereof, from among the items included in Schedules 1, 2, or 3 of this law.
(b) Items kept in transit and transshipment shall be, and shall be handled, in accordance with the procedures established by the Maldives Customs Service and other relevant authorities.
(c) The Enforcement Authority has the discretion to inspect and search items kept in transit and transshipment and to verify the validity of the permit submitted with them, whenever it wishes to do so.

Transactions made before inclusion in the Convention

    This law shall not apply to trade, import, export, and re-export of items included in Appendix I, Appendix II, and Appendix III of the Convention that were carried out before the inclusion of those items in the Convention. However, if any species of living organism, or any part or derivative thereof, is included or newly included in any of the three Appendices of the Convention, the matter shall be dealt with in accordance with the procedures laid down in this law.

Personal or household use items

    Items specified in Schedules 1 and 2 of this law which are lifeless, or any part or product thereof, that are imported into, exported from, or re-exported from the Maldives for personal or household use are exempt from this law.

Captive-bred and artificially propagated items

    If items from among the living things specified in Schedule 1 of this law, which are captive-bred in a facility registered with the Secretariat of the Convention, are used for commercial purposes, such items shall be treated in accordance with the procedures established for dealing with living things in Appendix II of the Convention.

Scientific Exchange

    Herbarium specimens, archaeologically preserved specimens, or parts of living plants that are given as a gift, on loan, or in exchange by a scientific institution registered with the Secretariat of the Convention to another such scientific institution are exempt from obtaining the permits specified in Chapter Five of this law. A label issued by the Management Authority or a person designated by the Management Authority must be affixed to such items.

Traveling Exhibits

    If the full details of the imported items are registered with the Management Authority, or if it can be proven that the item is included in a permit issued before the commencement of this law, or if it can be proven that the items were born, raised and kept in a registered captive animal facility, and if the Management Authority is satisfied that such items are being treated fairly, the person bringing the items as a traveling exhibit shall be exempted from obtaining an import, export or re-export permit.

Chapter Eight
Money and Financial Matters

Fees and Additional Charges

    The Management Authority has the discretion to charge a service fee for the services provided by the Management Authority under this law. The amount of the service fee and the procedure for charging the fee shall be specified in the regulations made under this law.

Compensation

31.
(a) The costs incurred by the Enforcement Authority or the Management Authority in seizing any living thing specified in this law that is imported in contravention of this law, and the costs incurred in connection with the seizure of such things, shall be paid to the Authority by the person who imported the things.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Article, if a court makes a final decision that the decision of the Enforcement Authority or the Management Authority was made in contravention of the law, the money paid by the person who imported the items under paragraph (a) of this Article shall be returned to that person.

Chapter Nine
Offenses and Penalties

Import without a permit

32.
(a) It is prohibited to import, export, re-export, or introduce from the sea any living thing, or any part or derivative thereof, included in a schedule of this law, except with a permit issued under this law.
(b) The Management Authority has the discretion to fine any person who commits an act specified in paragraph (a) of this Article with a fine of between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 1,000,000 (one million).

Possession and Control

33.
(a) It is prohibited to possess, control, sell, attempt to sell, or display in public places for personal use, in violation of the law, any living thing included in a schedule of this law, and any part or product thereof.
(b) The Management Authority is authorized to impose a fine of between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand) on any person who commits an act specified in paragraph (a) of this Article.

Repetition of an offense

    The Management Authority is authorized to fine a person who repeatedly commits an act contrary to this law with a fine of twice the amount of the fine prescribed for that act for each time the act is repeated.

Offenses for which no penalty is prescribed

    In matters for which no penalty is prescribed in this law, the Management Authority has the discretion to fine a person or persons who contravene this law with a fine of between MVR 1,000 (one thousand) and MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand), depending on the severity of the act.

Filing of Criminal Charges

    If an act stated in this law as not to be done by a particular person is an act designated as a criminal offense under Law No. 9/2014 (Maldives Penal Code) or any other law, this law shall not be a bar to the filing of a criminal charge against such a person under Law No. 9/2014 (Maldives Penal Code), in addition to the determination of an administrative action under this law.

Seizure of Illegally Traded Goods

37.
(a) If a living thing included in this law, or a part or product thereof, is being kept illegally, the Enforcement Authority and the Management Authority, or a person designated by them, have the power to seize it.
(b) The Enforcement Authority and the Management Authority, or a party designated by them, are empowered to seize various tools and items in addition to the cage used to commit an offense in connection with an offense specified in this law.
(c) After placing the items seized under this Article in a holding facility, they shall be dealt with in accordance with the standards established under the Convention for the disposal of items seized from illegal trade, in consultation with the Scientific Authority.

Disposal of items seized for illegal possession

38.
(a) If an item seized or confiscated for a violation of the law is a non-living item, or a part or derivative thereof, such an item shall be disposed of by the Enforcement Authority or a person designated by the Authority in accordance with the regulations established under this law. And the cost incurred for this shall be borne by the person who imported the item into the Maldives, or who possessed the item, or who attempted to export the item from the Maldives.
(b) The items mentioned in paragraph (a) of this Article shall be disposed of by the Enforcement Authority or a person designated by the Authority, after sharing the full information of the seizure of the item with the Management Authority, and with the consultation of the Scientific Authority. The Authority shall also fully record how the item was disposed of and share the details with the Management Authority.
(c) If the thing seized or taken for violation of the law is a living thing, the Management Authority shall, as soon as possible, determine a plan for the disposal of such a thing and the manner of its disposal in accordance with the regulation made under this law which specifies the procedures for dealing with living things taken for violation of the law.

Chapter Ten
Miscellaneous

Holding Facility

39.
(a) A holding facility shall be designated within 30 (thirty) days of the commencement of this law for the safe keeping of items seized or confiscated for violation of this law and the regulations made hereunder, until such items are disposed of in accordance with Article 38 of this law, or until another arrangement for dealing with such items is made.
(b) Items seized or confiscated for violation of this law and the regulations made under this law shall be taken to a holding facility for safekeeping until they are disposed of or until another arrangement for dealing with them is made.
(c) The general procedures for the transport and care of living things brought for safekeeping in the holding facility shall be determined by the Management Authority in the regulations made under this law, in accordance with the principles set forth in the Convention.
(d) The decision on how to deal with the items kept in the holding facility shall be made by the Management Authority in consultation with the Scientific Authority and other relevant parties. This decision shall be implemented by the party entrusted with the maintenance of the facility.

Making and Enforcing Regulations

40.
(a) Unless otherwise stated in this law, the regulations required to be made under this law shall be made and enforced by the Management Authority.
(b) The regulations required to be made under this law shall be made and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives within 6 (six) months from the date this law comes into effect.

Schedules

    The three schedules included in this law are part of this law. All three schedules shall be read in conjunction with this law.

Commencement of the Law

    This law shall come into force 3 (three) months from the date it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

Definitions

    Unless otherwise specified in this law, the following terms and phrases shall have the meanings given below in relation to those terms and phrases.
    (a) "International Convention on Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora" or "the Convention" refers to the "Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora" which entered into force on 1 July 1975.
    (b) "Artificially propagated plants" refers to plants and their parts grown in a controlled environment.
    (c) "Captive-bred animals" refers to living things that are conceived, born, raised, and thrive in an environment controlled by humans and not within their natural habitat.
    (d) "Certificate of Origin" refers to a document that certifies the country of origin of a living thing, or a part or derivative thereof, included in Schedule 3 of this law, when a country exports it and it has come from another country (a country not included in Schedule 3).
    (e) "Secretariat of the Convention" refers to the Secretariat entrusted with carrying out the affairs of the Convention as specified in Part 12 of the Convention.
    (f) "Enforcement Authority Officer" means the relevant Customs Officers of the Maldives Customs Service.
    (g) "Export" means to take something out of the territory of the Maldives.
    (h) "Import" means to bring something into the territory of the Maldives.
    (i) "Re-export" means the lawful export from the Maldives of an item imported under this law, without any change to its nature.
    (j) "Introduction from the sea" means the introduction into the Maldives of a marine organism, or a part of a marine organism, included in an Appendix of the Convention, which is brought into the Maldives from a marine area not within the legal jurisdiction of any country.
    (k) "International trade" means import, export, or re-export, or introduction from the sea, carried out under procedures established by Customs.
    (l) "Label" means a mark issued by the Management Authority or a person designated by the Management Authority.
    (m) "Permit" means an official document issued for living things, and any part or product thereof, imported, exported, re-exported, or introduced from the sea under this law.
    (n) "Personal or household items" refers to living things, or any part or product thereof, owned by a private individual and used in ordinary life.
    (o) "Scientific institution" means a university, research center, or scientific museum.
    (p) "Country of Origin" means the country to which a specified living thing, or a part or product thereof, belongs.
    (q) "Maldives Customs Service" means the Maldives Customs Service established under Law No. 8/2011 (Maldives Customs Act).
    (r) "Herbarium specimen" means a labeled or preserved plant or part thereof.
    (s) "Living things" or "living creatures" refers to the plants, animals, and all other living things specified in the schedules of this law.

Schedule 1
Living things included in Appendix I of the Convention, which are threatened with extinction by trade

Schedule 2
Living things included in Appendix II of the Convention, which are at risk of extinction due to trade

Schedule 3
Living things that member countries of the Convention have determined to control the trade of due to being threatened with extinction
