Law on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters
Chapter One
Preliminary Articles

1. Introduction and Name

(a) This is the law that sets out the procedures for the exchange of legal assistance between foreign countries and the Maldives in relation to criminal investigations and criminal proceedings.

(b) This Law shall be cited as the "Law on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters".

2. Purpose

The purpose of this Law is to achieve the following objectives:

(a) To set out the procedures related to requests submitted to the Maldives by foreign countries for arranging the acquisition of evidence and other items in the Maldives required for criminal proceedings or investigations conducted in foreign countries, and for their transfer to those countries, or for arranging for persons in the Maldives to travel to those countries to give evidence in trials or to assist in investigations conducted in foreign countries, and to set out the procedures to be followed in providing such assistance;

(b) To request assistance from foreign countries to arrange for the acquisition and transfer to the Maldives of evidence and other items in foreign countries required for criminal proceedings or investigations conducted in the Maldives, or for arranging for persons in foreign countries to travel to the Maldives to give evidence in trials or to assist in investigations conducted in the Maldives, and to set out the procedures to be followed in seeking such assistance.

3. Scope of Assistance

(a) The assistance provided or sought under this Law includes, in the following circumstances, the provision or acquisition of items required for a trial or investigation of a criminal matter:

(1) In taking a person's statement or obtaining testimony;
(2) In sending a person in the Maldives to a foreign country or bringing a person in a foreign country to the Maldives to give testimony in a trial or to assist in an investigation;
(3) In obtaining and serving judicial documents;
(4) In searching and seizing places to obtain evidence;
(5) In preventing dealings with property and seizing property;
(6) In searching and seizing objects and places;
(7) In providing information and items obtained as evidence;
(8) In obtaining original or officially certified true copies of relevant documents and records such as bank records, financial records, and business records;
(9) In obtaining proceeds of crime to be used as evidence.
(10) In taking the measures specified in Chapter 4 of this Law.

(b) This Law shall not prevent the seeking and providing of other types of international assistance in criminal matters, other than the types of assistance sought or provided under this Law, under other laws, or in circumstances permitted by law under international agreements.

4. Application of the Law to All Countries

This Law shall apply to all foreign countries.
Chapter Two
General Provisions Regarding Requests for Assistance

5. Request for Assistance by the Maldives

The Prosecutor General shall request international assistance in criminal matters on behalf of the Maldives under this Law.

6. Request for Assistance by Foreign Countries

(a) Requests submitted to the Maldives by foreign countries for the provision of assistance in criminal matters under this Law shall be submitted to the Prosecutor General, or to a party designated by the Prosecutor General to accept such requests under this Law.

(b) For the purposes of this Law, a request submitted to a party referred to in subsection (a) other than the Prosecutor General shall be deemed to be a request submitted to the Prosecutor General.

(c) A request for assistance from a foreign country under this Law shall be in writing. In addition, the documents shall be in the English language. If the original of the document is not in English, an English translation of the document, certified as a true copy and signed by the relevant official authority of that country, shall be submitted.

(d) Every request for assistance submitted by a foreign country under this Law shall be accompanied by the following information:

(1) The name of the authority submitting the request;
(2) The nature and scope of the assistance requested, and if the country requests that specific procedures be followed, that fact;
(3) The name of the law enforcement or judicial authority for which the assistance is required, and the main work carried out by that authority;
(4) A statement containing the nature of the criminal investigation or prosecution or trial to which the request relates, a summary of the case, and information on the relevant laws;
(5) In a case where information about a person is required, the person's name, whereabouts, and nationality;
(6) The purpose for which the information, evidence, or matter is sought;
(7) Any other information that the Prosecutor General determines is essential for acting on the request.

(e) The failure to comply with the requirements set out in subsections (c) and (d) of this Article in relation to a request submitted under this Law shall not be a reason for the request to be void. However, the Prosecutor General shall not proceed with such a request until those matters have been fulfilled.

(f) A model for the form in which requests submitted by foreign countries under this Article must be made shall be included in the regulations made under this Law.

7. Provision of Assistance with Conditions

Unless otherwise provided in a relevant agreement between a foreign country and the Maldives, the Prosecutor General may determine that the assistance provided by the Maldives to a foreign country under this Law is assistance provided with specific conditions.

8. Circumstances in which Assistance Shall Not Be Provided

(a) The Prosecutor General shall not accept a request from a foreign country if it appears to the Prosecutor General that the request falls into one of the following circumstances:

(1) The request is one for which there is sufficient evidence to suggest that it has been submitted for the purpose of prosecuting or punishing a person who has committed a political offense;
(2) The request is one for which there is sufficient evidence to suggest that it has been submitted for the purpose of prosecuting or punishing a person based on their race, sex, religion, nationality, political opinion, or any other opinion held by a person;
(3) The act committed or omitted by a person would, if it occurred in the Maldives, be considered an offense under the military law of the Maldives, but not a general criminal offense, and the request submitted is in relation to prosecuting or punishing that person for such an act;
(4) The provision of the assistance requested in the request is considered to be a threat to the independence and national security of the Maldives;
(5) The person referred to in the request has been acquitted by a court of the offense in question or another offense completed by the act of that offense under the law of that country, or has been punished for the offense after conviction, or has been pardoned for the offense, and the request has been submitted for the purpose of prosecuting or punishing him;
(6) The request is not a request for a type of assistance that can be provided under this Law.

(b) The Prosecutor General has the discretion not to accept a request from a foreign country under this Law if it appears to the Prosecutor General that the request falls into one of the following circumstances:

(1) The request is submitted in connection with the prosecution or punishment of a person for an act committed or omitted by him, and the act committed or omitted by him would not be considered an offense under the laws of the Maldives if it occurred in the Maldives;
(2) The request is submitted in connection with the prosecution or punishment of a person for an act committed or omitted by him, and the act committed or omitted by him is an act that occurred or is believed to have occurred outside the country that submitted the request, and in such circumstances, the laws of the Maldives do not apply to acts occurring outside the Maldives;
(3) The request is submitted in connection with the prosecution or punishment of a person for an act committed or omitted by him, and even if the act would be considered an offense under the laws of the Maldives if it had occurred at that time in the Maldives, a prosecution cannot be brought against him under the laws of the Maldives due to the passage of time or for any other reason;
(4) It is believed that providing the assistance requested in the request would adversely affect a trial or investigation ongoing in the Maldives in connection with a criminal matter;
(5) It is believed that providing the assistance requested in the request would endanger a person's safety;
(6) The provision of the assistance requested in the request is something that would have an adverse effect on the resources of the Maldives;
(7) It is believed that providing the assistance requested in the request would lead to an injustice against a person, or that a person's human rights may be violated;
(8) After considering all the circumstances of the case, it appears to the Prosecutor General that it is most appropriate not to provide assistance.

(c) The sole reason for deciding not to accept a request for assistance submitted by a foreign country under this Law shall not be the protection of banking secrecy.

(d) If a request for assistance submitted by a foreign country under this Law is not accepted, or if the provision of the assistance requested in the request is postponed, the country shall be notified. The letter sent to the country shall state the reasons for reaching that decision.

9. Matters Relating to the Death Penalty

(a) If a request submitted by a foreign country under this Law is a request submitted in connection with the prosecution of a person accused of committing an offense for which the death penalty is prescribed, or in connection with the punishment of a person convicted of committing such an offense, the request shall not be accepted unless it appears to the Prosecutor General, after considering the special circumstances of the case to which the request relates, that the assistance is essential.

(b) If it is believed that the result of providing assistance to a foreign country under this Law may be the imposition of a death sentence on a person, the Prosecutor General has the discretion not to provide such assistance if, after considering the special circumstances of the case to which the request relates, it appears to the Prosecutor General that it is most appropriate in the matter not to provide the assistance.
Chapter Three
Regarding the Acquisition of Evidence, Documents, and Other Items

10. Request by the Maldives for Obtaining Evidence

(a) The Prosecutor General may request the relevant authority of a foreign country to make arrangements for the following in connection with a criminal trial or investigation ongoing in the Maldives:

(1) To obtain a statement or testimony of a person in the foreign country in accordance with the laws of that country;
(2) To obtain a document in the foreign country or any other item sought in connection with the matter in accordance with the laws of that country;
(3) To send the items obtained under paragraph (1) and/or (2) of this subsection to the Maldives.

(b) For the purposes of this Article, even if such items cannot be obtained in the Maldives using the means used in the foreign country for obtaining the items requested under subsection (a) of this Article, such items obtained using the means of the foreign country may be accepted in the Maldives.

(c) In requesting assistance under subsection (a) of this Article, the Prosecutor General may also request the opportunity for the following parties to question the person giving evidence or providing a document or other item under this Article, through a video link or an internet link:

(1) If the matter relates to an ongoing trial, a party to the case or the legal counsel of that party;
(2) If the matter relates to an ongoing investigation, the person being investigated or their legal counsel.

11. Request by Foreign Countries for Obtaining Evidence

(a) If a foreign country submits a request for arrangements to be made for the following in connection with a criminal trial or investigation ongoing in that country, the Prosecutor General may, if it seems appropriate, grant permission to do so:

(1) To obtain a statement or testimony of a person in the Maldives;
(2) To obtain a document in the Maldives or any other item sought in connection with the matter;
(3) To send the items obtained under paragraph (1) and/or (2) of this subsection to that country.

(b) The permission granted by the Prosecutor General under this Article shall be given in writing, through the relevant form in the regulations made under this Law.

12. Obtaining Evidence

(a) If the Prosecutor General grants permission to obtain the testimony of a person in the Maldives under Article 11(a)(1) of this Law, an authorized officer of the police shall be instructed to request the court to summon the relevant witnesses to court and take their statements.

(b) In obtaining testimony under this Article, the judge shall act as follows:

(1) Take the statements of the witnesses after administering an oath;
(2) State whether a party referred to in subsection (e) of this Article, or any other person, was present or not for the giving of evidence;
(3) After recording the testimony of the witnesses summoned in writing, certify and sign that the statement was taken by that judge and send it to the Commissioner of Police.

(c) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of this Article, this Article shall not prevent the taking of testimony via video conference in a situation where the person giving evidence is unable to attend the trial.

(d) Upon receipt of the evidence obtained under subsection (b) of this Article, the Commissioner of Police shall promptly inform the Prosecutor General.

(e) The evidence obtained under this Article may be taken in the presence or absence of the person being prosecuted in a trial conducted in a foreign country or the person suspected in an investigation conducted in a foreign country, or their legal counsel.

(f) The person being prosecuted in a trial conducted in a foreign country or the person suspected in an investigation conducted in a foreign country cannot be compelled to give evidence under this Article.

13. How the Trial Shall Be Conducted

The procedures to be followed in trials held to obtain evidence under Article 11 of this Law shall be specified in the regulations made under this Law.

14. Obtaining Documents and Other Items

(a) If the Prosecutor General grants permission to obtain a document under Article 11(a)(2) of this Law, the Prosecutor General shall instruct an authorized officer of the police to apply to the court for a court order required to obtain that document.

(b) If a court order is issued under subsection (a) of this Article, upon receipt of the document ordered to be obtained by the order, the court shall send the original of the document or a copy certified as a true copy and signed by the judge to the Commissioner of Police.

(c) If the Prosecutor General grants permission to obtain an item other than documents under Article 11(a)(2) of this Law, the procedure for obtaining that item shall also be in accordance with subsections (a) and (b) of this Article.

14-1. General Procedure

(a) In connection with an offense committed through a computer system, or an offense related to computer data, or any other offense requiring the acquisition of electronic evidence, the relevant authorities of the Maldives may work with a foreign country or agency, or with a 24/7 network, or with an international agency, in accordance with the procedures set out in this Chapter, for the purpose of criminal proceedings conducted in the Maldives or for the purpose of investigations related to such offenses.

(b) If it appears to the Prosecutor General that information obtained in an investigation of a criminal offense committed in the Maldives is information that could assist a foreign country or agency in commencing an investigation or trial of any offense or in proceeding with such an investigation or trial, that information may be shared with a foreign country or a foreign agency or a 24/7 network or an international agency, without any party requesting it.

(c) An authority with the power to conduct criminal investigations may, without obtaining the permission of a foreign country, do the following:

(1) Obtain or access computer data stored in a computer system located outside the Maldives by using a computer system in the Maldives, after obtaining the lawful consent of the person who has the legal authority to disclose the computer data, in accordance with the law;
(2) In the following circumstances, obtain or access computer data stored in a computer system located outside the Maldives by using a computer system in the Maldives;
(i) There is a possibility of a great danger to the life or safety of private individuals in the near future; or
(ii) There is a significant economic loss in the Maldives in terms of the number of people harmed or the extent of the damage.

(d) The authority with the power to conduct criminal investigations shall use the discretion provided in subsection (c) of this Article only in a situation where the use of the general procedures for providing legal assistance established in this Law would hinder the conduct of an investigation or the bringing of a prosecution for an offense in the Maldives.

(e) After obtaining computer data or accessing such data under subsection (c) of this Article, the authority that obtained or accessed the data shall inform the relevant foreign country of the fact within a reasonable period of time.

(f) Unless otherwise provided in any other law, this Article shall not prevent an authority with the power to conduct criminal investigations from accessing publicly available (open source) computer data, regardless of where in the world the data is located, without obtaining the permission of a foreign country.

(g) The Prosecutor General shall specify in the regulations made under this Law the procedures to be followed by an authority with the power to conduct criminal investigations in obtaining or accessing computer data without obtaining the permission of a foreign country under subsection (c) of this Article.

(h) The discretion granted to the Prosecutor General or an authority with the power to conduct criminal investigations under this Chapter shall be exercised to implement the procedures for providing legal assistance set out in this Law, and requests from a foreign country or a foreign agency or a 24/7 network or an international agency shall be accepted, in a manner not inconsistent with Article 8 of this Law.

14-2. Expeditious Preservation of Stored Computer Data

(a) If a foreign country or a foreign agency or a 24/7 network or an international agency intends to request the assistance of the Maldives under Article 14-4 of this Law to search, access, obtain, seize, or disclose data stored in a computer system in the Maldives, the party intending to submit such a request may, before submitting the request, apply to the Prosecutor General for the expeditious preservation of that data or for the issuance of an expedited order for preservation.

(b) If any party submits a request under subsection (a) of this Article, the Prosecutor General or a law enforcement agency designated by him shall take all necessary steps to preserve the data as soon as possible, under the procedures specified in Law No. 12/2016 (Criminal Procedure Code) and the powers granted by that law.

(c) In response to a request to preserve data under this Article to facilitate the submission of a request by a foreign country or a foreign agency or a 24/7 network or an international agency for the assistance of the Maldives to search, access, obtain, seize, or disclose data stored in a computer system in the Maldives, the measures taken to preserve the data shall be for a period of not less than 60 (sixty) days. And upon receipt of such a request, the measures taken to preserve the data shall be maintained until a decision is made regarding the request.

14-3. Expeditious Disclosure of Preserved Traffic Data

While the Maldives is executing a request submitted to the Maldives in relation to a specific communication under Article 14-2 of this Law or otherwise, if the Prosecutor General receives information that a service provider of a third country is involved in transmitting the communication, the Maldives shall, even if not specifically requested, expeditiously disclose to the foreign country or foreign agency or 24/7 network or international agency that submitted the request in relation to the communication, the service provider and traffic data to the extent that it reveals the manner in which the communication was transmitted.

14-4. Exchange of Assistance Regarding Access to Stored Computer Data

(a) A foreign country or a foreign agency or a 24/7 network or an international agency may submit a request to the Prosecutor General to search, access, obtain, seize, or disclose data stored in a computer system in the Maldives, including data preserved under Article 14-2 of this Law, or for an order to do so.

(b) A request for assistance under subsection (a) of this Article shall include the following information:

(1) Information of the requesting party;
(2) Information of the criminal offense being investigated or tried and a summary of the facts related to the offense;
(3) Information of the computer system or device containing the data requested to be searched, accessed, obtained, seized, or disclosed;
(4) Information of the stored computer data or program requested to be searched, accessed, obtained, seized, or disclosed, and the connection between the data or program and the offense;
(5) All available information regarding the owner of the data stored in the computer system or the location of the computer system or device;
(6) The importance of searching and seizing the data.

(c) Upon receipt of a request under subsection (a) of this Article, the Prosecutor General or a law enforcement agency designated by him shall take all necessary steps to obtain the necessary permissions and orders to execute the request under the procedures specified in Law No. 12/2016 (Criminal Procedure Code) and the powers granted by that law.

(d) Upon obtaining a necessary permission or order under subsection (c) of this Article, the Prosecutor General has the discretion to request the cooperation and assistance of the party that submitted the request under subsection (a) of this Article during the search and seizure phase.

(e) Upon completion of the execution of the request for search and seizure submitted under subsection (a) of this Article, the Prosecutor General shall share the evidence so obtained or seized with the party that submitted the request.

14-5. Exchange of Assistance for the Real-Time Collection of Traffic Data

(a) A foreign country or a 24/7 network or a foreign agency or an international agency may submit a request to the Prosecutor General for an order to collect traffic data in real-time related to specific communications transmitted in the Maldives using a computer system, or for assistance in the real-time collection of that data.

(b) Upon receipt of a request under subsection (a) of this Article, the Prosecutor General or a law enforcement agency designated by him shall take all necessary steps to obtain the necessary permissions and orders to execute the request under the procedures specified in Law No. 12/2016 (Criminal Procedure Code) and the powers granted by that law.

(c) Upon obtaining a necessary permission or order under subsection (b) of this Article, the Prosecutor General has the discretion to request the cooperation and assistance of the party that submitted the request under subsection (a) of this Article during the real-time collection of traffic data phase.

(d) Upon completion of the execution of the request for the real-time collection of traffic data submitted under subsection (a) of this Article, the Prosecutor General shall share the traffic data so collected with the party that submitted the request.

14-6. Interception of Content Data

(a) A foreign country or a 24/7 network or a foreign agency or an international agency may submit a request to the Prosecutor General for an order to collect or record in real-time content data related to specific communications transmitted in the Maldives using a computer system, or for assistance in the real-time collection or recording of that data.

(b) Upon receipt of a request under subsection (a) of this Article, the Prosecutor General or a law enforcement agency designated by him shall take all necessary steps to obtain the necessary permissions and orders to execute the request under the procedures specified in Law No. 12/2016 (Criminal Procedure Code) and the powers granted by that law.

(c) Upon obtaining a necessary permission, notice, or order under subsection (b) of this Article, the Prosecutor General has the discretion to request the cooperation and assistance of the party that submitted the request under subsection (a) of this Article during the interception of content data phase.

(d) Upon completion of the execution of the request for the real-time collection or recording of content data submitted under subsection (a) of this Article, the Prosecutor General shall share the content data so collected or recorded with the party that submitted the request.

14-7. 24/7 Network

(a) A point of contact shall be established and maintained within the Maldives Police Service, available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to provide immediate assistance for criminal investigations and proceedings related to an offense involving a computer system or computer data, or any other offense requiring the acquisition of electronic evidence.

(b) The assistance provided by the 24/7 network established under subsection (a) of this Article shall include assistance related to the following matters:

(1) Preservation of data as specified in Articles 14-2 and 14-3 of this Law;
(2) Obtaining electronic evidence;
(3) Providing legal information;
(4) Locating the whereabouts of suspects;
(5) Providing technical advice.

14-8. Definitions

(a) For the purposes of this Chapter, "access" or "to access data" has the meaning given to those terms in Law No. 9/2014 (Maldives Penal Code).

(b) For the purposes of this Chapter, "computer system" has the meaning given to that term in Law No. 9/2014 (Maldives Penal Code).

(c) For the purposes of this Chapter, "device" has the meaning given to that word in Law No. 9/2014 (Maldives Penal Code).

(d) For the purposes of this Chapter, "data" or "computer data" or "content data" has the meaning given to that word or those terms in Law No. 9/2014 (Maldives Penal Code).

(e) For the purposes of this Chapter, "interception" has the meaning given to that term in Law No. 9/2014 (Maldives Penal Code).

(f) For the purposes of this Chapter, "program" has the meaning given to that word in Law No. 9/2014 (Maldives Penal Code).

(g) For the purposes of this Chapter, "service provider" has the meaning given to that term in Law No. 12/2016 (Criminal Procedure Code).

(h) For the purposes of this Chapter, "traffic data" has the meaning given to that term in Law No. 12/2016 (Criminal Procedure Code).
Chapter Four
Regarding the Search for, Seizure, and Prevention of Dealing in Property

15. Request by the Maldives for Search and Seizure

(a) If there is sufficient evidence to believe that an item required for a trial or investigation of a serious criminal offense ongoing in the Maldives is in a foreign country, the Prosecutor General may request the relevant authority of that country to make arrangements for the following:

(1) To issue a court order to search for that item;
(2) To issue a court order to prevent dealing in or to seize the item obtained under this Article, or any other item found that is believed to be or may be required for the trial or investigation;
(3) To send the items obtained under this Article to the Maldives.

(b) In relation to a request made under subsection (a) of this Article, even if the item specified in the request was not searched for in the foreign country under a court order as requested in this Article, if the item was obtained in a manner permitted by the laws of that country, that item may be accepted for the trial or used in the investigation specified in this Article.

16. Request by a Foreign Country for Search and Seizure

(a) If a foreign country submits a request to the Maldives for arrangements to be made for the issuance of a court order to search for an item required for a trial or investigation of a serious criminal offense ongoing in that country, and if it appears to the Prosecutor General that there is sufficient evidence to believe that the item is in the Maldives, the Prosecutor General may instruct the police in writing to obtain a court order to search for that item.

(b) When the Prosecutor General instructs the police to apply for a court order under subsection (a) of this Article, an authorized officer of the police shall apply to the court for the issuance of such an order.

(c) The court shall provide an opportunity to hear cases requesting a court order under this Article even in circumstances where advance arrangements cannot be made, taking into account that the items requested to be searched for under this Article are items that have the possibility of being destroyed or concealed.

17. Issuance of a Court Order

(a) Upon a request for a court order under Article 16 of this Law, if it appears to the court that the trial specified in the request is ongoing in the foreign country, and if it appears to the court that the item for which an order is requested is important for that trial or investigation, and if it appears to the court that there is sufficient reason to issue such an order, the court may issue an order to give the police the power to enter the place where the item is believed to be in order to search for that item, and the power to search that place in order to find that item, and the power to seize that item if it is in that place.

(b) An order issued under subsection (a) of this Article shall state the following:

(1) The purpose for which the order is issued;
(2) The nature of the offense specified in the request to which the order relates;
(3) The details of the items sought;
(4) If the order authorizes the use of reasonable force to carry out the actions authorized by the order, that fact;
(5) The duration for which the order will remain in effect;
(6) If the order permits entry into the place authorized to be entered at any time of the day or night, that fact, or if such a place can only be entered at specific times of the day or night, that fact.

(c) In a search conducted in accordance with an order issued under this Article, if an item other than the item specified in the order is found, and if it appears to the police officer that the item would be required for the trial or investigation specified in Article 16 of this Law, or could be used as evidence in a criminal offense ongoing in the Maldives, and if that officer believes that there is a possibility of the item being concealed or destroyed, the order shall be deemed, for the purposes of this Law, to grant the power to seize that item.

(d) A court order may also be issued authorizing the prevention of dealing in an item requested to be searched for under subsection (a) of this Article if a foreign country requests it.

18. Procedures Regarding Court Orders

The details regarding the application for a court order to search for an item under this Law, the issuance, revocation, and enforcement of such an order shall be specified in the regulations made under this Law.

19. How Seized Property Shall Be Dealt With

(a) The items seized in accordance with an order issued under Article 17 of this Law shall be under the custody of the Commissioner of Police.

(b) If any item is handed over to the Commissioner of Police under subsection (a) of this Article, it is the responsibility of the Commissioner of Police to inform the Prosecutor General of the matter and to keep the item in safe custody.

(c) If the Prosecutor General sees fit, the Commissioner of Police may be instructed in writing on how to deal with an item being held by the Commissioner of Police under this Article.
Chapter Five
Regarding the Summoning of Persons to Give Testimony in Trials and to Assist in Investigations

20. Request to Bring a Person in a Foreign Country to the Maldives

(a) If the Prosecutor General believes that a person in a foreign country can give evidence in a trial ongoing in the Maldives, and if that person agrees to come to the Maldives and give evidence in that case, the Prosecutor General may request the relevant authority of that country for permission to bring him to the Maldives.

(b) If the Prosecutor General believes that a person in a foreign country can assist in an investigation ongoing in the Maldives in connection with a criminal matter, and if that person agrees to come to the Maldives and assist in that investigation, the Prosecutor General may request the relevant authority of that country for permission to bring him to the Maldives.

(c) In connection with a request made by the Prosecutor General under subsection (a) or (b) of this Article, the Prosecutor General may also request the relevant authority of the foreign country to make arrangements for the following:

(1) Arrangements for bringing the person to the Maldives;
(2) Arrangements for sending the person back to that country;
(3) Other relevant arrangements.

21. Immunities Granted to Persons Brought to the Maldives

(a) A person brought to the Maldives under Article 20 of this Law, or a person brought to the Maldives under a request made by the Prosecutor General to give evidence in a trial ongoing in the Maldives or to assist in an investigation ongoing in the Maldives in connection with a criminal matter, otherwise than under that Article, shall be entitled to the following protections:

(1) That he will not be prosecuted or detained in connection with an offense committed before he left the foreign country to come to the Maldives at the request of the Prosecutor General under Article 20 of this Law;
(2) That if an act committed or omitted by him before he left the foreign country to come to the Maldives at the request of the Prosecutor General under Article 20 of this Law is an act for which a civil claim would not be brought against him if he were outside the Maldives, no such claim will be brought against him in the Maldives;
(3) If he is a person brought to the Maldives under Article 20(a) of this Law, he cannot be compelled to give evidence after being brought to the Maldives except in connection with the matter specified in that Article;
(4) If he is a person brought to the Maldives under Article 20(b) of this Law, he cannot be compelled to give evidence after being brought to the Maldives except in connection with the matter specified in that Article;
(5) He cannot be compelled in a trial specified in Article 20(a) of this Law to answer questions of a nature that he would not be required to answer if he were giving evidence in a criminal matter in a foreign country;
(6) He cannot be compelled in a trial specified in Article 20(a) of this Law to produce a document or other item of a nature that he would not be required to produce if he were giving evidence in a criminal matter in a foreign country.

(b) A person brought to the Maldives under Article 20 of this Law, or a person brought to the Maldives to give evidence in a trial ongoing in the Maldives or to assist in an investigation ongoing in the Maldives in connection with a criminal matter, otherwise than under that Article, shall not be entitled to the protection provided by subsection (a) of this Article in the following circumstances:

(1) Upon leaving the Maldives after the purpose for which he came to the Maldives has ended;
(2) In a situation where he remains in the Maldives after having been given the opportunity to leave the Maldives under this Law, except for one of the following reasons:
(i) Remaining in the Maldives for a purpose specified in Article 20 of this Law;
(ii) Remaining in the Maldives to give evidence in a particular trial in accordance with a written notice from the Prosecutor General stating that it is important for him to give evidence in that trial;
(iii) Remaining in the Maldives to provide assistance in a particular investigation in accordance with a written notice from the Prosecutor General stating that it is important for him to provide assistance in that investigation.

(c) The period during which he remains in the Maldives in accordance with the written notice issued by the Prosecutor General under paragraphs (2)(ii) and (iii) of subsection (b) of this Article shall be counted from the date specified in that notice.

22. Status of Persons Who Commit Offenses After Leaving a Foreign Country

(a) If a person who comes to the Maldives under Article 20 of this Law commits an offense after leaving the foreign country, or is suspected of having committed an offense, he shall be deemed, for the purposes of this Chapter, to be in the Maldives during the period he is in the Maldives for the purpose for which he was brought to the Maldives under Article 20 of this Law, for the purpose of prosecuting him in connection with the offense he committed in contravention of the laws of the Maldives after leaving the foreign country.

(b) A person referred to in subsection (a) of this Article may be kept in custody in the manner specified in Article 24(b) of this Law.

23. Testimony Given by a Person Brought to the Maldives Not to Be Used Against Him

(a) If a person brought to the Maldives to give testimony or to assist in an investigation under Article 20 of this Law, or a person brought to the Maldives to give testimony or to assist in an investigation in another criminal matter outside of that Article, gives testimony or provides assistance, the testimony he gave in the trial or the statement he made or the act he committed in assisting the investigation shall not be used to prove an offense against him.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, if he has given false evidence in giving testimony, this Article shall not prevent the use of the testimony he gave in prosecuting him for giving false evidence.

24. Keeping a Person Brought to the Maldives in Custody

(a) If a person brought to the Maldives under Article 20 of this Law is a person in custody, and if the foreign country requests that he be kept in custody during the period he is in the Maldives, the Prosecutor General shall make arrangements for him to be kept in custody.

(b) A person kept in custody under this Article shall be kept in the custody of the police.

(c) A person shall be kept in custody under this Article in accordance with the procedures specified in the regulations made under this Law regarding the bringing of such a person to the Maldives, his departure from the Maldives, and his being kept in custody during his stay in the Maldives.

25. Application of Maldivian Law to Persons in Custody

The laws and regulations in force in the Maldives regarding the following matters shall apply to a person held in custody in the Maldives under Article 24 of this Law:

(a) Procedures for the detention of persons who violate the laws of the Maldives;
(b) Procedures for the treatment of persons in custody;
(c) Procedures for the transfer of persons from one prison to another.

26. Release from Custody

If the country from which a person was brought to the Maldives before he was brought to the Maldives requests the release of a person held in custody under Article 24(a) of this Law, the Prosecutor General shall instruct the relevant authority to release him in accordance with the regulations made under this Law.

27. Escape from Custody

(a) If a person brought to the Maldives under Article 20 of this Law and held in custody in accordance with this Law and the regulations made under this Law escapes, the police have the power to arrest him without a court order.

(b) In order for the court to determine whether the person arrested under subsection (a) of this Article escaped while in lawful custody under this Law, he shall be brought before the court as soon as possible, and at the latest within 24 (twenty-four) hours.

(c) If it is proved to the court that the person brought before the court under subsection (b) of this Article escaped while in lawful custody under this Law, the court shall order his re-arrest.

(d) The laws in force in the Maldives regarding assistance in the escape of offenders from custody and the protection of fugitive offenders shall apply to persons brought to the Maldives under this Law.

28. Request to Send a Person in the Maldives to a Foreign Country

If a foreign country submits a request to send a person in the Maldives to that country to give testimony in a trial or to assist in an investigation ongoing in that country, and if the Prosecutor General believes that the person is a person who can give such testimony or provide such assistance, and if the person agrees to go to that country and give testimony, and if that country provides assurances regarding the matters specified in Article 30 of this Law in relation to that person, the Prosecutor General may make such arrangements in the manner specified in this Law.

29. Sending Persons in Custody and Persons Released from Custody

(a) If a person referred to in Article 28 of this Law is a person in custody, the Prosecutor General may instruct the relevant authority to do the following in order to take him to that country:

(1) To release him from custody in order to take the offender to that country to give evidence in the trial or to assist in the investigation specified in Article 28 of this Law;
(2) To make arrangements for sending the offender to that country in the custody of a designated police officer or prison officer.

(b) If a person referred to in subsection (a) of this Article is a person released from custody under the parole system or under any other legal permission, the Prosecutor General may grant permission to take the offender to that country to give evidence in the trial or to assist in the investigation specified in Article 28 of this Law, with the following arrangements:

(1) To instruct the relevant authority to obtain permission from the parties from whom permission must be obtained in relation to the matter, and to amend the permission to release him from custody if the permission needs to be amended to take him to that country; and
(2) After obtaining all the necessary permissions under paragraph (1) of this subsection, to make other necessary arrangements for sending him to that country.

30. Matters to be Assured Regarding Persons Sent to Foreign Countries

(a) The foreign country shall assure that a person sent to a foreign country under Article 28 of this Law shall, except in the circumstances specified in Article 31 of this Law, be entitled to the following protections:

(1) That he will not be prosecuted or detained in connection with an offense committed before he left the Maldives to go to the foreign country at the request of the foreign country under Article 28 of this Law;
(2) That if an act committed or omitted by him before he left the Maldives to go to the foreign country at the request of the foreign country under Article 28 of this Law is an act for which a civil claim would not be brought against him if he were in that country at the time he committed the act, no civil claim will be brought against him in connection with that matter;
(3) That after he is taken to the foreign country, he will not be compelled to give evidence except in connection with a trial or investigation specified in Article 28 of this Law;
(4) That he shall not be required to answer questions in a trial specified in Article 28 of this Law of a nature that he would not be required to answer if he were giving evidence in a criminal matter in the Maldives;
(5) That he shall not be required to produce a document or other item in a trial specified in Article 28 of this Law of a nature that he would not be required to produce if he were giving evidence in a criminal matter in the Maldives;
(6) That if he goes to the foreign country under Article 28 of this Law and gives evidence in a trial, the evidence he gives will not be used to prove an offense against him, except to prosecute him for giving false evidence in a case where he has given false evidence;
(7) If he is a person in custody in the Maldives, that if the Prosecutor General submits a request for the following arrangements to be made regarding his being kept in custody in the foreign country, those arrangements will be made:
(i) Arrangements for him to be kept in custody in that country;
(ii) That if he is released under the laws of the Maldives while he is in that country, he will be released upon the Prosecutor General's instruction to the relevant authority of that country, and that in other circumstances, he will not be released from custody;
(iii) That the cost of his accommodation and food during the period he is in that country until the purpose for which he was taken to that country under this Law is fulfilled shall be borne by that country, for a person released under paragraph (ii) of this subsection.

(b) This Article shall not prevent the determination of matters that a foreign country must assure in relation to any other matter that the Prosecutor General deems fit, in addition to the matters specified in subsection (a) of this Article.

31. Matters Assured by the Prosecutor General

(a) The Prosecutor General shall assure that the Maldives agrees that a person sent to a foreign country under Article 28 of this Law shall be entitled to the protection provided by Article 30 of this Law except in the following circumstances:

(1) Upon leaving the foreign country after the purpose for which he went to the foreign country has ended;
(2) In a situation where he remains in the foreign country after having been given the opportunity to leave that country under this Law, except for one of the following reasons:
(i) Remaining in that country for a purpose specified in Article 28 of this Law;
(ii) Remaining in that country with his own consent and with the permission of the Prosecutor General to give evidence in a particular trial in accordance with a written notice from the relevant authority of that country stating that it is important for him to give evidence in that trial;
(iii) Remaining in that country with his own consent and with the permission of the Prosecutor General to provide assistance in a particular investigation in accordance with a written notice from the relevant authority of that country stating that it is important for him to provide assistance in that investigation.

(b) A person may remain in that country under paragraphs (2)(ii) and (iii) of subsection (a) of this Article for the period specified in the permission granted by the Prosecutor General. That period shall be counted from the date specified in the permission.

32. The Sentence of a Person in Custody Continuing to be Served

If a person taken to a foreign country under Article 28 of this Law is a person who has been convicted by a court of committing an offense in contravention of the laws of the Maldives and is in custody for the purpose of serving his sentence, his period of custody shall continue to be counted during the period he is in the foreign country under this Law.
Chapter Six
Regarding Persons in Transit in the Maldives

33. Transit

(a) If a foreign country requests transit in the Maldives for a person in a foreign country who is being taken to another foreign country to give evidence in a trial or to assist in an investigation, the Prosecutor General may grant a permit for that person to transit in the Maldives in the custody of a relevant person from that country.

(b) A person transiting in the Maldives with permission under subsection (a) of this Article shall be held in custody as determined by the Prosecutor General from the time the vessel on which he is traveling lands or docks in the Maldives until he departs from the Maldives.

(c) If a person transiting in the Maldives under this Article has not been taken to the country to which he should be taken within a reasonable period of time, the Prosecutor General may order that he be returned to the country from which he was brought.

34. Escape of a Person in Transit

(a) If a person transiting in the Maldives under Article 33 of this Law escapes, and if the Prosecutor General believes, based on sufficient evidence, that the person was being held in custody in the manner determined by the Prosecutor General under Article 33(b) of this Law, the Prosecutor General has the power to order the police to arrest him without a court order.

(b) In order for the court to determine whether the person arrested under subsection (a) of this Article escaped while in valid custody, he shall be brought before the court as soon as possible, and at the most within 24 (twenty-four) hours.

(c) If it is proved to the court that the person brought before the court under subsection (b) of this Article escaped while in valid custody, the court shall order his re-arrest.

35. Assisting Persons in Transit to Escape

The laws in force in the Maldives regarding assistance in the escape of offenders from custody and the protection of fugitive offenders shall apply to persons transiting in the Maldives under this Law.
Chapter Seven
Regarding Property Obtained Through Crime

36. Request Regarding Property Obtained Through Crime in a Foreign Country

(a) If a court in the Maldives has ordered the forfeiture to the State of any property or money obtained by a person by committing a serious criminal offense, or any property or money obtained by him as a result of committing such an offense, and if the property specified in the order is in a foreign country, the Prosecutor General may request the relevant authority of that country to make arrangements for the necessary actions to be taken in the foreign country to enforce the order.

(b) If a person has obtained any property or money by committing a serious criminal offense, or if he has obtained any property or money as a result of committing such an offense, and if a court in the Maldives has ordered the seizure of the property or the prevention of dealing in the property or the placing of the item in the custody of a particular party until the trial of the case is concluded in a certain way, and if the property specified in the order is in a foreign country, the Prosecutor General may request the relevant authority of that country to make arrangements for the necessary actions to be taken to enforce the order.

(c) If any property or money obtained by a person by committing a serious criminal offense, or any property or money obtained by him as a result of committing such an offense, is in a foreign country, and if a court in the Maldives has issued an order other than the order specified in subsection (a) or (b) of this Article in relation to that property or money, the Prosecutor General may request the relevant authority of that country to make arrangements for the necessary actions to be taken to enforce the order.

37. Request Regarding Property Obtained Through Crime in the Maldives

(a) If property or money obtained by a person by committing a serious criminal offense in a foreign country, or property or money obtained by him as a result of committing such an offense, is in the Maldives, and if a court in that country has ordered the forfeiture of that property or money to the state of that country, the relevant authority of that country may submit a request to the Prosecutor General to make arrangements for the necessary actions to be taken to enforce the order in the Maldives.

(b) If property or money obtained by a person by committing a serious criminal offense in a foreign country, or property or money obtained by him as a result of committing such an offense, is in the Maldives, and if a court in that country has ordered the seizure of the property or the prevention of dealing in the property or the placing of the item in the custody of a particular party until the trial of the case is concluded in a certain way, the relevant authority of that country may submit a request to the Prosecutor General to make arrangements for the necessary actions to be taken to enforce the order in the Maldives.

(c) If property or money obtained by a person by committing a serious criminal offense in a foreign country, or property or money obtained by him as a result of committing such an offense, is in the Maldives, and if a court in that country has issued an order other than the order specified in subsection (a) or (b) of this Article in relation to that property or money, the relevant authority of that country may submit a request to the Prosecutor General to make arrangements for the necessary actions to be taken to enforce such an order in the Maldives.

(d) The foreign orders specified in this Article shall be registered in a court in the Maldives for enforcement in the Maldives under this Article.

(e) The details of the matters relating to the enforcement of the foreign orders specified in this Article in the Maldives under this Article shall be specified in the regulations made under this Law. Accordingly, the regulations shall include details on the following matters:

(1) The procedures for submitting foreign orders required to be enforced in the Maldives to the court for registration in the Maldives, and how the order can be registered;
(2) How registered orders can be amended;
(3) How registered orders can be revoked.
Chapter Eight
Regarding Requests for Assistance by Persons Accused in Criminal Matters

38. Submission of a Request for Assistance by the Accused Party

(a) If the accused party in a criminal matter ongoing in the Maldives finds that the following matters are important for the trial, he may apply to the court for a document stating that it is in the best interest of justice in the case for the Prosecutor General to submit a request to a foreign country to arrange for those matters:

(1) Obtaining evidence in a foreign country;
(2) Obtaining a document or other item in a foreign country;
(3) Seizing an item in a foreign country;
(4) Bringing a person in a foreign country to the Maldives to give evidence in that trial.

(b) Before making a decision on a matter submitted by the accused party under subsection (a) of this Article, the court shall give the following parties the opportunity to appear before the court and respond:

(1) The person accused in the matter specified in subsection (a) of this Article;
(2) The Prosecutor General.

(c) In deciding to issue a document in accordance with a matter submitted under subsection (a) of this Article, in addition to considering the general principles of justice, the court shall also consider the following matters:

(1) The possibility of the foreign country accepting such a request from the Prosecutor General;
(2) Whether the item requested by the accused can be obtained in another way or not;
(3) Whether such an item can be accepted by the court as evidence;
(4) The extent to which the decision in the case would benefit if the item were submitted to the court as evidence;
(5) Whether the rights of the accused party would be prejudiced if the item were not submitted to the court as evidence.

(d) This Article shall not prevent the court from considering any other relevant matter that it deems fit, in addition to the matters specified in subsection (c) of this Article.

(e) If the court issues a document under this Article, the court shall provide a copy of that document to the Prosecutor General. And it is the responsibility of the Prosecutor General to request the assistance in accordance with that document.

(f) If a foreign country decides not to accept a request made by the Prosecutor General in accordance with this Article, the Prosecutor General shall issue a letter to the accused stating that fact.
Chapter Nine
Regarding the Acceptance of Evidence from Foreign Countries

39. Application of the Matters in this Chapter

The procedures specified in this Chapter shall apply to the following matters:

(a) Trials conducted in the Maldives in connection with a criminal matter; and
(b) Civil matters related to such criminal matters as specified in subsection (a) of this Article.

40. Evidence from Foreign Countries

(a) Evidence from foreign countries is defined as the statement taken in a foreign country at the request of the Prosecutor General under this Law, and the relevant items included with that statement.

(b) For the purposes of this Article, a part of the statement specified in this Article or a part of the relevant items included with the statement shall also be considered as evidence from a foreign country.

41. Procedures for Taking a Statement

(a) A statement specified in Article 40 of this Law shall be taken in a high court of that country, in a closed court hearing, after the person giving the statement has been sworn in, or in accordance with the procedures for taking such statements in that court.

(b) The statement taken under subsection (a) of this Article may be recorded in one of the following ways:

(1) In writing;
(2) Through audio;
(3) Through video.

(c) A document certifying that the statement taken under subsection (a) of this Article is a statement taken in accordance with that subsection and that it is a true statement shall be attached to the statement.

(d) The document referred to in subsection (c) of this Article shall be a document signed by the judge of the court that took the statement, and bearing the seal of the state of that country or of an authority concerned with the administration of justice.

42. Acceptance of Evidence from Foreign Countries

Except in one of the following circumstances, evidence from foreign countries obtained under this Law shall be accepted in the trials specified in Articles 39(a) and (b) of this Law:

(a) There is sufficient reason to believe that the person giving the evidence specified in this Article is in the Maldives at the time the trial specified in this Article is held, and that the person can attend that hearing;
(b) If he were to give evidence in the hearing specified in this Article, the evidence would be inadmissible in court;
(c) The court determines that the evidence from a foreign country is an item that cannot be accepted under Article 43 of this Law.

43. Decision Not to Accept Evidence from Foreign Countries

(a) If it appears to the court that the most just course of action in a trial specified in Article 39 of this Law is not to accept evidence from a foreign country, the court may decide not to accept such evidence.

(b) In making a decision under subsection (a) of this Article, the court shall consider the following matters:

(1) The extent to which evidence from a foreign country is more useful than evidence obtained in another way;
(2) The extent to which the decision in the case would benefit if evidence from a foreign country were submitted to the court;
(3) The extent to which the truth of the statement given by the parties who gave the statement at the time the statement presented as evidence from a foreign country was taken can be questioned by questioning them;
(4) The delays and difficulties that the trial would face if the evidence from a foreign country were not accepted;
(5) The extent to which the rights of the person accused in the criminal matter or a party to a civil matter related to the criminal matter would be prejudiced if the evidence from a foreign country were not accepted.

44. Document Relating to Evidence from Foreign Countries

(a) Upon request by a court of the Maldives, the Prosecutor General shall determine in writing that evidence from a foreign country is evidence received at the request of the Prosecutor General or a person designated by the Prosecutor General under this Law.

(b) Unless there is sufficient evidence to prove otherwise, the evidence specified in the document issued by the Prosecutor General under subsection (a) of this Article shall be deemed to be evidence obtained by that country at the request of the Prosecutor General.

45. Questioning Witnesses

(a) No article in this Chapter shall prejudice the right of the person accused in a trial specified in Article 39 of this Law, or his legal counsel, to question the person giving evidence in that trial.

(b) If the accused party in a matter specified in Article 39 of this Law states that they wish to question the person presenting evidence in the Maldives and requests that arrangements be made for it, the court shall inform him that he may have to bear the expenses incurred by the state in bringing that person to the Maldives and summoning him to court.

(c) If the person giving evidence appears in court at the request of the accused party under subsection (b) of this Article, and if it appears to the court that the questions asked by the accused party are irrelevant or improper, the court may order the accused party to pay the expenses incurred by the state to summon that person to court.

(d) A document issued by the Prosecutor General shall suffice as evidence of the expenses incurred in bringing a person giving evidence to the Maldives under this Article.

(e) The money payable by a person under subsection (c) of this Article shall be considered a civil debt payable by him to the state.

(f) A judgment made by the court for a person to pay money under subsection (c) of this Article shall be enforced in the Maldives in the same manner as such debts are enforced in civil matters.

46. No Effect on Other Laws

The procedures specified in any other law regarding the obtaining of evidence are not limited by this Law.
Chapter Ten
Miscellaneous

47. Request for Assistance by an International Organization

(a) The Prosecutor General may submit a request to an international organization under this Law for the provision of legal assistance in a criminal matter.

(b) For the purposes of this Article, an international organization shall be considered to be the International Criminal Police Organization or any international organization that states that such assistance may be requested in the Maldives under an international treaty to which the Maldives is a party.

(c) Unless otherwise provided in this Law, the procedures established in this Law for dealing with requests submitted to the Maldives by foreign countries under this Law shall apply to requests submitted by international organizations under this Article.

48. Acceptance of Evidence

(a) In a trial held under this Law or any other law, any document obtained by a foreign country in connection with a request made under this Law and which is stated to be a valid document in this Law shall be admissible as evidence.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, this Article shall not prevent the submission to a trial specified in that Article of a document that is permitted to be submitted as evidence under another law.

49. Valid Document

A document referred to in Article 48(a) of this Law shall be considered a valid document under this Law if it is a document signed by the judge of the court that took the relevant statement and bears the seal of the state of that country or of an authority concerned with the administration of justice.

50. Foreign Law Immunity Certificate

For trials held under this Law, a Foreign Law Immunity Certificate shall be admissible as evidence of the matters stated in that certificate.

51. Not to Use Information Except as Permitted

(a) For the purposes of this Law, any item, whether it is evidence, a document, or any other item, sent to the Maldives by a foreign country in accordance with a request made by the Prosecutor General under this Law, shall not be used for any other purpose without the permission of the Prosecutor General.

(b) For the purposes of this Law, an item shall not be accepted for any trial other than the trial for which the item was stated to be required when the request for the item was made under this Law, except with the permission of the Prosecutor General.

(c) For the purposes of this Law, if information, a document, or any other item is obtained directly or indirectly from a person using an item specified in subsection (a) of this Article, it shall not be used in any trial or investigation other than the trial or investigation for which the item was stated to be required when the request for the item specified in subsection (a) of this Article was made, except with the permission of the Prosecutor General.

(d) A person who contravenes subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this Article commits an offense.

(e) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in subsection (d) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 10,000 (ten thousand).

(f) If a legal person commits an offense specified in subsection (d) of this Article, the penalty for that person is a fine of between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 25,000 (twenty-five thousand).

(g) For the purposes of this Article, the disclosure of information about an item specified in this Article shall be considered as using that information.

52. Non-disclosure of Information

(a) If a person knows, by virtue of the position he holds, that a foreign country has requested assistance in a criminal matter under this Law, or that assistance has been provided at that request, or the details of such a request, he shall not disclose that information except to the extent necessary to perform his official duties, or to the extent permitted by the Prosecutor General.

(b) A person who contravenes subsection (a) of this Article commits an offense.

(c) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in subsection (b) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 10,000 (ten thousand).

(d) If a legal person commits an offense specified in subsection (b) of this Article, the penalty for that person is a fine of between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 25,000 (twenty-five thousand).

53. Expenses

(a) Unless otherwise provided in an international treaty to which the Maldives is a party or in an agreement between a foreign country and the Maldives, the general expenses to be incurred in connection with the enforcement of the matters in a request submitted by a foreign country shall be borne by the Maldives.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, if the enforcement of the matters in a request is a matter that will incur significant expense, the matter may be dealt with in a manner agreed upon after consultation between the two parties regarding the enforcement of the request.

(c) Unless otherwise provided in an international treaty to which the Maldives is a party or in an agreement between a foreign country and the Maldives, the expenses incurred in sending a person in the Maldives to that country under a request submitted by a foreign country shall be borne by that country.

54. Making Regulations

(a) Unless otherwise specified in this Law, the regulations regarding the determination of the procedures for trials conducted under this Law shall be made and implemented by the relevant courts.

(b) Regulations other than those specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be made by the Prosecutor General.

(c) The regulations to be made under this Law shall be made and publicly announced within 3 (three) months from the date this Law comes into force.

55. Commencement of the Law

This Law shall come into force within 6 (six) months from the date it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

56. Definitions

Unless otherwise specified in this Law, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given below:

(a) "Law of the Maldives" means all laws in force in the Maldives.

(b) "A foreign country" means any country other than the Maldives. This definition includes all territories of that country and all islands under the political authority of that country.

(c) "Relevant authority of a foreign country" means a party that the Prosecutor General accepts is a party authorized or permitted by the law of that country to submit a request for the provision of assistance by the Maldives in a criminal matter under this Law, or to accept requests for such assistance submitted by the Maldives.

(d) "Law of a foreign country" means all laws in force in a country other than the Maldives.

(e) "Offender" means an offender who has been accused of committing an offense that is considered an offense under the laws of the Maldives or the laws of a foreign country and is in custody for trial, or is in custody before sentencing, or is in custody after sentencing. This definition does not include persons who have escaped while in custody.

(f) "Commissioner of Police" means the person referred to in Article 52 of Law No. 5/2008 (Police Act).

(g) "An item" means a book, document, or other property or item in which any kind of information is recorded, or a medium in which such an item is stored.

(h) "Military law" means Law No. 1/2008 (Armed Forces Act) and the regulations made under that law and all other laws and regulations made in relation to the military of the Maldives.

(i) "A video or internet link" means an electronic system established for a group of people gathered in one place to see, hear, and speak with a group of people in another place.

(j) "Dealing in property" includes the following:
(1) Acquiring or receiving property;
(2) Concealing property, or altering its nature by changing its location, form, or ownership, or in any other way;
(3) Bringing property into or taking property out of the Maldives;
(4) Obtaining money using property (whether by renting or mortgaging);
(5) Using the property as security for the payment of a debt.

(k) "Foreign Law Immunity Certificate" means a statement or certificate issued by a foreign country stating that a certain group of people or everyone in general is or is not required to answer certain types of questions or to produce certain documents in general trials or in certain types of trials, in general or in certain circumstances, under the laws of a foreign country.

(l) "A place" includes a public place, a vehicle, a vessel, a boat, or the sea areas of the Maldives.

(m) "A document" means an item on which any kind of information is recorded, including the following media:
(1) A written or printed item (whether a chart, plan, graph, or drawing);
(2) A computer file prepared in a way that can be accessed by electronic means;
(3) A photograph;
(4) A disc, tape, film, or music roll on which sound or other such data is stored;
(5) A film, negative, or any other item on which a scene or other such data is stored.

(n) "Political offense" means offenses, other than the following offenses, which are considered to have been committed for a political reason when looking at the circumstances of the offense:
(1) The offense of intentionally killing a person or otherwise killing a person;
(2) The offense of causing serious bodily harm to a person;
(3) The offense of kidnapping or taking a person hostage or obtaining money or any other item by force;
(4) The offense of using an explosive or any other such weapon in a manner that could endanger a person's life, cause serious bodily harm to a person, or cause damage to a person's property;
(5) The offense of attempting to commit, planning, encouraging, or assisting in the commission of an offense specified in paragraphs (1) to (4) of this subsection.

(o) "A judicial document" includes a summons to appear in court, a notice, and other such orders and judgments issued by a judicial court.

(p) "A serious criminal offense" means an offense for which the maximum penalty under the laws of the Maldives is imprisonment for a period of at least 1 (one) year or detention in any other way, or an offense that is defined as an offense under the laws of another country, which, if the act of the offense occurred in the Maldives, the maximum penalty for the offense completed by that act under the laws of the Maldives is imprisonment for a period of at least 1 (one) year or detention in any other way.

(q) "Investigation of a criminal matter" means an investigation conducted in connection with an offense that a person suspected of having committed an offense is suspected of having committed.

(r) "Prison" includes all places prepared for the detention of offenders or persons suspected of offenses.

(s) "Trial of a criminal matter" means a trial held to determine whether the offense that a person accused of having committed an offense is stated to have committed is proved, and if the offense is proved, to determine the punishment for the offense.
