Law on the National Integrity Commission
Chapter One

Commencement

Introduction and Name
1.
(a) This is the law to establish a commission to strengthen the administration of law enforcement agencies in the Maldives, to determine all principles and procedures for investigating matters related to law enforcement agencies and their employees, to regulate matters concerning taking action in relation to such issues, to specify the powers, responsibilities, and scope of work of the commission, the qualifications and code of conduct for its members, the principles for the administration of the commission and the principles for the performance of its duties, and to state other related principles.

(b) This law shall be cited as the "National Integrity Commission Act."

Purposes of the Law
2. The purposes of this law are to achieve the following:

(a) To investigate and inquire into acts committed by law enforcement agencies and their employees that are in violation of the law and regulations; and if it is alleged that any party has committed or is attempting to commit such an act, to investigate and inquire into the matter upon submission of a case.

(b) To provide necessary legal protection for employees of law enforcement agencies in the performance of their duties, and to increase public trust and confidence in the services of employees of law enforcement agencies.

(c) To formulate national-level policies to strengthen the work of law enforcement agencies, to amend and bring changes to these policies, and to introduce and implement plans, projects, principles, and standards required to be formulated and executed in state institutions for the implementation of these policies; to provide necessary advice to state institutions regarding the measures, principles, and standards they must take and adhere to, to submit necessary proposals, to issue required orders, and to monitor the implementation of these matters and assess the extent of their results.

(d) To establish procedures for conducting necessary findings and investigations on its own initiative, without a matter being submitted by any party, if information is received that law enforcement agencies or their employees have committed acts in violation of the law and regulations, or if such a crime is suspected to have occurred, without it being reported by any party or receiving information from any party.

(e) To specify the powers, responsibilities, and scope of work of the Commission, the qualifications and code of conduct for its members, and the principles for the administration of the Commission and the performance of its duties.

(f) To take necessary measures to enhance honesty, integrity, and the upholding of the law in the administration of the state.
Chapter Two

National Integrity Commission

Establishment of the Commission
3. Upon the commencement of this Act, a commission named the "National Integrity Commission" is hereby established to determine the procedures and principles for investigating and taking action on matters related to law enforcement agencies and their employees, and to carry out all necessary actions for the implementation of this Act.

Formation of the National Integrity Commission
4. The President of the Republic shall, on the date this Act comes into effect, establish an office named the "National Integrity Commission" for the purpose of fulfilling the responsibilities and duties of the National Integrity Commission under this Act.

Legal Status
5. The National Integrity Commission is an independent legal personality with the power to sue and be sued in its own name, to conduct transactions in its own name, and having its own seal.

Applicability of the Law
6. This law shall apply to the following law enforcement agencies and the individuals working therein:

(a) The Customs Service established under Law No. 8/2011 (Maldives Customs Act);

(b) The Maldives Police Service established under Law No. 5/2008 (Police Act);

(c) The Maldives Correctional Service established under Law No. 14/2013 (Maldives Prisons and Parole Act);

(d) The Department of Immigration and Emigration.
Chapter Three

Responsibilities and Powers of the Commission

General Powers of the Commission
7. In order to achieve the objectives stated in Article 2 of this law, the Commission is empowered to do all things necessary in accordance with this law and the regulations made hereunder, including the following:

(a) To acquire, maintain, and use all equipment, resources, and tools necessary to carry out its responsibilities;

(b) To establish standards for the investigation of various cases by the Commission, and to formulate procedures to be followed in carrying out the Commission's responsibilities and in implementing this law;

(c) When the Commission deems it necessary to press criminal charges in relation to a case it has investigated, to submit the matter to the Maldives Police Service or the Prosecutor General's Office for investigation and prosecution;

(d) To form task forces in relation to cases investigated by the Commission and to seek the assistance of experts in relevant fields to aid in carrying out the Commission's responsibilities;

(e) To summon persons required as witnesses to the Commission and to obtain their testimony;

(f) To hold hearings if the Commission deems it important for a case;

(g) To decide whether a hearing or a part of a hearing held by the Commission shall be open or closed to the public.

Responsibilities of the Commission
8. The responsibilities of the Commission are set out below:

(a) To investigate and inquire into acts committed by law enforcement agencies and their employees that are in violation of the law and regulations; and if it is alleged that any party has committed or is attempting to commit such an act, to investigate and inquire into the matter upon submission of a case;

(b) To conduct necessary findings and investigations on its own initiative, without a matter being submitted by any party, if information is received that law enforcement agencies or their employees have committed an act in violation of the law and regulations, or if such an act is suspected to have occurred, without it being reported by any party or receiving information from any party;

(c) To investigate, inquire into, and take action if a complaint is submitted by any party alleging that an officer of the Commission has acted in violation of the law and regulations or has been negligent in the performance of their duties;

(d) To investigate cases initiated by the Commission on its own accord and cases submitted by the Minister in charge of the law enforcement agency at the time, and to submit a relevant report and its findings to the law enforcement agency;

(e) When the Commission deems it necessary to press criminal charges in relation to a case it has investigated, to submit the matter to the Maldives Police Service or the Prosecutor General's Office for prosecution;

(f) To clarify matters that need further investigation by other state institutions among the matters being investigated by the Commission by submitting them to those bodies, and to inform the relevant state institutions of matters that need to be communicated to them;

(g) If the Commission deems it necessary to amend a procedure or regulation in force in a law enforcement agency to prevent the recurrence of such a case, to provide advice on the matter to the law enforcement agency;

(h) To visit police stations, prisons, and various other agencies to check whether the work of law enforcement agencies is being carried out in accordance with the law and regulations, to identify matters that need reform, and to propose those reforms;

(i) To promote the integrity of employees of law enforcement agencies and to prevent employees of such agencies from committing crimes;

(j) To specify the powers, responsibilities, and scope of work of the Commission, the code of conduct for its members, and the principles for the administration of the Commission and the performance of its duties;

(k) To establish relations with foreign governments, regional organizations, and international organizations in the work of strengthening the work of law enforcement agencies, and to seek assistance, support, and cooperation in matters beneficial to the Maldives through these relations, to agree on matters that need to be agreed upon, and to act on matters that need to be acted upon;

(l) To formulate national-level policies to strengthen the work of law enforcement agencies, to amend and bring changes to these policies, and to introduce and implement plans, projects, principles, and standards required to be formulated and executed in state institutions for the implementation of these policies; to provide necessary advice to state institutions regarding the measures, principles, and standards they must take and adhere to, to submit necessary proposals, to issue required orders, and to monitor the implementation of these matters and assess the extent of their results;

(m) To increase the awareness of employees of law enforcement agencies by conducting seminars, workshops, and other programs, and to conduct studies to identify the manner, type, and causes of acts contrary to law and regulations committed by law enforcement agencies and their employees, and to disclose and publish these studies;

(n) To publish annually a public annual report on the activities of the Commission.
Chapter Four

Members of the Commission

Number of Members
9. The Commission shall be composed of 5 (five) members.

Qualifications of Members
10. A person appointed to the membership of the Commission must possess the following qualifications:

(a) Be a Muslim;

(b) Be a Maldivian citizen;

(c) Be of sound mind;

(d) Be at least 30 (thirty) years of age;

(e) Not have been convicted in a court of law within the past 5 (five) years of an offense for which a hadd is prescribed in Islam, or an offense of fraud, or an offense of bribery;

(f) Hold a first degree and have at least 7 (seven) years of work experience;

(g) Be a person with the competence and capability to perform the responsibilities and duties of the Commission;

(h) Not be holding a position elected or appointed under the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives or a law;

(i) Not be a spouse, child, father, or mother of an employee of a law enforcement agency;

(j) Not be a member of a political party;

(k) Not be holding any other employment.

Appointment of Members
11.
(a) The President of the Republic shall appoint the members of the Commission upon the advice of the People's Majlis, in the manner specified in subsection (b) of this Article.

(b) Seeking the advice of the People's Majlis and the giving of advice by the People's Majlis as stated in subsection (a) of this Article shall be in the following manner:
(1) Each time members are to be appointed to the Commission, the President of the Republic shall submit the matter to the People's Majlis by a letter sent to the People's Majlis;
(2) The names of the persons proposed for appointment to the Commission at that time, and their curriculum vitae, shall be included with that letter;
(3) The decision of the Majlis shall be communicated to the President of the Republic by a letter from the Speaker of the People's Majlis.

(c) Persons appointed to the membership of the Commission must meet the qualifications specified in Article 10 of this law.

(d) When the President of the Republic sends names to the People's Majlis in accordance with subsection (b) of this Article, he shall send a number of names not less than the number to be appointed to the Commission at that time. If the number of people who respond to a public announcement is less than the number to be sent, the names of all who applied at that time shall be sent to the People's Majlis.

President of the Commission
12.
(a) The President of the Republic shall appoint a member from among the members of the Commission as the President of the Commission.

(b) The President of the Republic shall notify the People's Majlis of any decision made under this Article within a maximum of 48 (forty-eight) hours of the decision being made.

Responsibilities of the President of the Commission
13. The responsibilities of the President of the Commission are set out below:

(a) To plan and manage the work of the Commission;

(b) To assign complaints submitted to the Commission to members of the Commission for investigation;

(c) To preside over the meetings of the Commission.

Vice President of the Commission
14.
(a) A person from among the members of the Commission shall be appointed as the Vice President of the Commission.

(b) The Vice President of the Commission shall be a person elected by the members of the Commission from among themselves by a secret ballot. And the Commission shall inform the People's Majlis and the President of the Republic of the decision made by the Commission in this manner within a maximum of 48 (forty-eight) hours of the decision being made.

Responsibilities of the Vice President of the Commission
15. In the event that the President of the Commission is unable to perform the duties of his office, or is on leave, or if the position becomes vacant, his duties shall be temporarily performed by the Vice President of the Commission. In addition, he shall assist the President of the Commission in running the Commission.

Responsibilities of the Members of the Commission
16.
(a) The responsibilities of the members of the Commission are set out below:
(1) To attend meetings of the Commission, unless for an acceptable reason;
(2) To perform the responsibilities assigned by the Commission, unless for an acceptable reason;
(3) To conduct investigations carried out by the Commission;
(4) To abide by and respect all laws of the Maldives, and to remain in the performance of official duties under those laws;
(5) To make decisions without any personal bias, and based solely on the evidence at hand, and in doing so, to be sincere, fair, and diligent in one's work and duties;
(6) To deal respectfully with other persons in the course of official work, and in dealing with persons suspected of a crime;
(7) Not to take any action with malicious intent against a person who has submitted a case to the Commission;
(8) Not to use the power and authority vested in one with malicious intent to cause harm to a particular party, and to use the discretion granted within the scope of the law correctly, and in using that discretion, to respect the rights and duties of others and the legitimate interests in the law;
(9) To serve the Commission with independence, justice, and fairness, and to carry out assigned tasks without yielding to any influence, in accordance with the laws of the Maldives;
(10) To consider appropriate competence and educational level as the most fundamental principle in selecting and appointing people for the Commission's work, and to consider being a person suitable in terms of education, ethics, and work as the main standard to be considered in giving employment, promotion, and other matters related to employees.

Term of Membership
17.
(a) A member appointed to the Commission shall remain in that position for a term of 5 (five) years from the date of his appointment.

(b) No person appointed to membership under this law shall serve as a member for more than 2 (two) terms of 5 (five) years, whether consecutively or otherwise.

Salary
18.
(a) The salary and other allowances payable to the members of the Commission shall be determined by the People's Majlis.

(b) The salary and other allowances payable to the members of the Commission shall not be reduced during their term of membership except in a manner specified in a law.

(c) The salary and allowances of the employees of the Commission shall be determined by the Commission with the consultation of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury.

Vacancy of Position
19. The position of a member shall become vacant if any of the following circumstances arise for that member:

(a) Resignation in accordance with this law;

(b) Completion of the term of membership;

(c) Removal from membership in accordance with this law;

(d) Contesting for a political office elected under the Constitution or a law;

(e) Loss of a qualification specified in this law for members.

Appointment of Persons to Vacant Positions
20.
(a) If a position of a member of the Commission becomes vacant due to the circumstance mentioned in Article 19(b) of this law, the necessary consultation from the People's Majlis shall be sought and finalized 15 (fifteen) days before the vacancy, in the manner specified in Article 11 of this law.

(b) If the position of the President of the Commission, the Vice President of the Commission, or a member of the Commission becomes vacant due to any of the circumstances specified in Articles 19(a), (c), (d), and (e) of this law, a person shall be newly appointed to that position within 60 (sixty) days of the position becoming vacant.

Resignation
21.
(a) If a member of the Commission wishes to resign from his position, he shall submit a letter to the President of the Republic stating the reason, and upon receipt of that letter by the President of the Republic, that member shall be deemed to have been removed from membership.

(b) Even if the President or Vice President of the Commission resigns from the presidency or vice presidency under subsection (a) of this Article, he shall not be deemed to have resigned from the membership of the Commission.

Removal from Membership
22. The President of the Republic has the discretion to remove a member of the Commission from membership if one of the following circumstances arises:

(a) Declared bankrupt by a court judgment;

(b) Loses a qualification required by this law for a member of the Commission;

(c) Is convicted of a criminal offense by a court of law.
Chapter Five

Employees and Technical Advisors of the Commission

Employees and Technical Advisors of the Commission
23.
(a) The government shall provide the employees and resources necessary for the Commission to carry out its responsibilities and work.

(b) The Commission is empowered to employ, train, promote, and dismiss employees and additional officers as necessary for the safe and sound conduct of the Commission's responsibilities and to achieve the objectives of this law, in a manner not inconsistent with the budget approved by the People's Majlis each year for the running of the Commission.

(c) The Commission may hire a number of technical personnel determined by the Commission as legal officers or from among legal practitioners to provide assistance in carrying out the responsibilities of the Commission.

(d) If an employee or officer of the Commission has a conflict of interest, directly or indirectly, with a party under investigation, they must disclose it to the Commission and shall not have any kind of relationship with such a party in their capacity as a person working for the Commission.

(e) The Commission is empowered to make regulations that apply to its employees and officers.

Consultants
24.
(a) Persons who have worked in law enforcement agencies and persons who have retired from the service of such agencies may be appointed as consultants to provide technical advice to the Commission. The manner of obtaining consultants for the Commission shall be included in the regulations of the Commission.

(b) The consultants obtained by the Commission in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article shall not be persons who have a direct or indirect relationship with a party under investigation or a party who has submitted a case to the Commission.
Chapter Six

Committees

Complaints Committee
25.
(a) The Commission is empowered to form a Complaints Committee consisting of a number determined by the Commission to achieve the objectives specified in Article 2 of this law.

(b) The responsibilities of the Complaints Committee include the following:
(1) To establish a system for managing cases and complaints submitted to the Commission;
(2) To identify the nature of the cases submitted to the Commission;
(3) To conduct a preliminary investigation to identify the case as specified in Article 34 of this law;
(4) To share the actions taken regarding the cases with the person who submitted the case.

Task Force
26. The Commission is empowered to form task forces in the numbers required to carry out the responsibilities of the Commission smoothly and robustly.

(a) Officers and consultants of the Commission may be included as members of the task force.

(b) The types of cases to be investigated by the task forces and the responsibilities of the task force shall be specified in the regulations made under this law.

Other Committees
27. The Commission is empowered to form committees in the numbers required by the Commission to carry out the responsibilities that the Commission must perform under this law.
Chapter Seven

Powers of the Commission

Powers of the Commission
28. The Commission shall have the following powers to carry out its responsibilities:

(a) To acquire, maintain, and use all equipment, resources, and tools necessary to carry out its responsibilities;

(b) To establish standards for the investigation of various cases by the Commission, and to formulate procedures to be followed in carrying out the Commission's responsibilities and in implementing this law;

(c) When the Commission deems it necessary to press criminal charges in relation to a case it has investigated, to submit the matter to the Maldives Police Service or the Prosecutor General's Office for prosecution;

(d) To form task forces in relation to cases investigated by the Commission and to seek the assistance of experts in relevant fields to aid in carrying out the Commission's responsibilities;

(e) To review complaints submitted to the Commission, investigate them, and take administrative action when deemed necessary.
Chapter Eight

Submission of Cases

Submitting Cases to the Commission
29. Any person may submit a complaint or case to the Commission for investigation regarding a law enforcement agency specified in Article 6 of this law, or an employee or employees working in a law enforcement agency specified in Article 6 of this law.

Type of Case
30.
(a) The Commission shall investigate the following types of cases under this law:
(1) An act committed by an employee of a law enforcement agency in violation of the law and regulations;
(2) An act committed or omitted by an employee of a law enforcement agency which, in the view of the Commission, is not fair, or is considered discriminatory;
(3) An act committed by an employee of a law enforcement agency in violation of the procedures they are required to follow;
(4) A suspicion of having committed a criminal offense.

(b) The Commission is empowered to investigate the cases specified in subsection (a) of this Article in the following circumstances as well:
(1) If the act was committed by a person who is not an employee of a law enforcement agency, but an employee of a law enforcement agency participated in committing the act;
(2) An act committed by an employee of a law enforcement agency outside of official hours.

Information to be Completed
31. When submitting a case or complaint in accordance with Article 29 of this law, the following information must be complete:

(a) Full details of the person submitting the case;

(b) Full details of the party against whom the case is filed;

(c) The act committed or omitted by the party against whom the case is filed, and the damage caused to the person submitting the case as a result of that act;

(d) If the person who suffered harm as a result of the act of the party against whom the case is filed is not the person submitting the case, full details about the person who suffered harm, and the relationship between the person who suffered harm and the person submitting the case;

(e) Information of anyone present at the scene when the act took place;

(f) All information related to the incident, such as photos and documents.

Incomplete Information
32.
(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 31 of this law, the Commission shall not decide that a case cannot be investigated solely on the grounds that the information specified in that Article is incomplete or deficient.

(b) If the evidence and corroboration submitted for a case are insufficient to investigate the matter, as specified in Article 31 of this law, the Complaints Committee has the discretion to dismiss the case with instructions to resubmit it after completing the information.

Registration of a Case
33.
(a) Upon submission of a case to the Commission, after evaluating all evidence and corroboration received in connection with the case, the Complaints Committee shall decide whether to register the case, after considering the following matters:
(1) Whether or not the case falls within the scope specified in Article 30 of this law;
(2) The case not being a type of case that can be investigated by the Commission under Article 59 of this law;
(3) The complaint not being submitted on any valid basis;
(4) Difficulty in investigating the case because the events under consideration occurred on a much earlier date;
(5) The person submitting the case having better opportunities to resolve the case than submitting it to the Commission;
(6) The case submitted being a case that has been investigated and decided by a court of law or is being investigated by a court of law.

(b) When a case is submitted to the Commission under Article 29 of this law, after recording the information provided by the person submitting the case, if it is decided to register the case, a document of registration shall be given to the person who submitted the case.

(c) If, after considering the matters specified in Article 35(d), it is found that the case is one that the Commission does not have the jurisdiction to investigate, a written reply with reasons shall be given to the person who submitted the case, stating that the case will not be investigated.

Preliminary Investigation
34. The Complaints Committee may conduct a preliminary investigation in connection with a case submitted to the Commission to obtain further information regarding the following matters:

(a) The nature of the case submitted;

(b) Whether or not the case is one that requires a full investigation by the Commission.

Findings of the Complaints Committee
35.
(a) If, after a preliminary investigation as specified in Article 34 of this law, the Complaints Committee finds that a case submitted to the Commission is an ethical matter, and if the Complaints Committee finds that the most appropriate body to investigate such a case is the disciplinary committee designated to take disciplinary action against that employee, the Complaints Committee may submit an investigation report to the Commission containing its findings.

(b) If the Complaints Committee finds that a case submitted to the Commission is a matter that should be investigated under Law No. 2/2000 (Prevention and Prohibition of Corruption Act), the Complaints Committee may submit an investigation report to the Commission containing its findings.

(c) If, after a preliminary investigation of a case submitted to the Commission, it is found that the case is one that requires a full investigation by the Commission, the Complaints Committee may submit an investigation report to the Commission containing its findings.

(d) If, after a preliminary investigation of a case submitted to the Commission, the Complaints Committee finds that the case is not one that can be investigated by the Commission, considering the following matters, the Complaints Committee may submit an investigation report to the Commission containing its findings:
(1) Whether or not the case falls within the scope specified in Article 30 of this law;
(2) The case not being a type of case that can be investigated by the Commission under Article 59 of this law;
(3) The complaint not being submitted on any valid basis;
(4) Difficulty in investigating the case because the events under consideration occurred on a much earlier date;
(5) The person submitting the case having better opportunities to resolve the case than submitting it to the Commission;
(6) The case submitted being a case that has been investigated and decided by a court of law or is being investigated by a court of law.

Action by the Commission Regarding the Investigation of the Complaints Committee
36.
(a) Based on the investigation report submitted to the Commission by the Complaints Committee as specified in Article 35 of this law, the Commission shall decide on the case in one of the following ways:
(1) If the Commission believes, based on the report of the Complaints Committee under Article 35(a), that the case is a disciplinary matter, and if the Commission does not see the need for further investigation into the matter, the case shall be sent to the disciplinary committee of the agency where the employee works for investigation.
(2) If the Commission believes, based on the report of the Complaints Committee under Article 35(b), that the case is a matter to be investigated under Law No. 2/2000 (Prevention and Prohibition of Corruption Act), the case shall be submitted to the Anti-Corruption Commission for investigation.
(3) If the Commission believes, based on the report of the Complaints Committee under Article 35(c), that the case is one that requires a full investigation by the Commission, the Commission shall inform the following parties:
(i) If the case is an ethical matter, the disciplinary committee that investigates ethical issues of that employee;
(ii) If the case is a criminal matter, the Maldives Police Service and the Prosecutor General's Office.
(4) If the Commission believes, based on the report of the Complaints Committee under Article 35(d), that the case cannot be investigated by the Commission, the Commission has the discretion to dismiss the case.
(5) If the Commission finds that a report submitted by the Complaints Committee under Article 35 is not a complete report, the Commission is empowered to assign the case to a task force for further investigation.
(6) After investigating the cases assigned to the task force under paragraph (5) of this Article, the task force shall submit an investigation report to the Commission within 14 (fourteen) days of the case being assigned.

(b) Cases sent to the disciplinary committee under paragraph (a)(1) of this Article or to the Anti-Corruption Commission under paragraph (a)(2) of this Article shall be investigated by that body, and the decision made by that body regarding the case shall be communicated to the Commission within 30 (thirty) days of the case being sent.

(c) The decision made by the Commission regarding a case submitted to it shall be given in writing with reasons to the person who submitted the case.

Investigation of Cases on the Commission's Own Initiative
37. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 31 of this law, if the Commission receives information regarding a case involving a law enforcement agency or an employee of a law enforcement agency, and if investigating that case is a matter of public interest, the Commission is empowered to investigate that case on its own initiative.

Powers of the Commission in Relation to Investigation
38.
(a) For the purposes of this law, the Commission shall have the following powers:
(1) To take testimony from witnesses orally or in writing, by affirmation or on oath, in accordance with the standards used for taking evidence in courts of law;
(2) To summon any person residing in the Maldives to a meeting or hearing of the Commission to produce any document or other such item under their custody or for taking testimony;
(3) To summon persons deemed relevant to an investigation being conducted by the Commission and to obtain their testimony and statements;
(4) To have Commission employees enter government offices and other places to inspect and, if necessary, bring to the Commission documents and other items deemed relevant to an investigation being conducted by the Commission for the purpose of examination and copying;
(5) To obtain specific information from persons whom the Commission believes can provide such information regarding particular matters;
(6) To order a relevant government authority to provide information or submit a report to the Commission within a specified period in connection with a case submitted to the Commission.

Opportunity to Defend
39. In a case investigated and inquired into by the Commission, the accused person shall be given the opportunity to speak in his defense, or through a legal counsel, to state to the Commission his version of how the matter occurred, or how he acted in the matter.
Chapter Nine

Hearings and Summoning of Persons

Hearings
40.
(a) The Commission may hold a hearing if it deems it important or necessary for the purpose of an investigation it is conducting.

(b) Hearings for cases submitted to the Commission shall be held by a panel of inquiry established by the President of the Commission, comprising an odd number of members. The method of determining the members of the panel of inquiry, and the dates and times for holding the panel of inquiry meetings shall be included in the regulations made under this law.

Public and Closed Hearings
41.
(a) Hearings of the Commission shall be held open to the public.

(b) Notwithstanding the provision in subsection (a) of this Article, if an outcome that may arise from a hearing or a part of a hearing, or information or documents that may be shared are in their nature confidential, that hearing or part of the hearing may be conducted in private.

(c) In making such decisions, it is mandatory for the Commission to consider the public interest involved in the matter.

Issuing a Summons to Appear Before the Commission
42. The Commission has the discretion to issue a summons to appear before the Commission as provided in this Article to summon witnesses, respondents, and other persons who need to be brought before the Commission for various purposes. A summons issued in this manner shall include the following information:

(a) The name, permanent and temporary address of the person required to appear;

(b) The place, date, and time to appear;

(c) The reason for having to appear;

(d) Other information that the Commission deems necessary to include in the summons;

(e) On the reverse side of the summons to appear before the Commission, matters to which the person appearing should pay attention.

Serving the Summons
43.
(a) If the summons can be delivered to the person required to appear before the Commission, the summons is deemed served upon delivery to that person. The party delivering the summons and the party receiving it must sign the original and the copy of the summons. Failure to sign will be considered as non-receipt. If the summons cannot be delivered to the person required to appear before the Commission, delivery of the summons to a person of sound mind living in his house shall be considered as the summons having been served.

(b) If the person to be summoned to the Commission is a person on a sea vessel, and it is not possible to act as specified in subsection (a) of this Article, posting the summons in a visible place for the people on that vessel shall be considered as the summons having been served on that person.

(c) If the person to whom the summons is to be delivered is a state employee, the summons shall be deemed to have been served on that person by acting as specified in subsection (a) of this Article or by sending the summons to the place where he is employed.

(d) If, after a summons has been served in accordance with this Article, the person to whom the summons is to be delivered denies receipt of the summons, the testimony given by the person who went to deliver the summons on behalf of the Commission, stating that the summons was delivered, shall be considered as conclusive evidence of the receipt of the summons.

Party Serving the Summons
44.
(a) Although the summons shall generally be served by the employees of the Commission, in circumstances determined by the Commission, the summons to appear before the Commission may be served by registered post or through another party designated by the Commission.

(b) In cases where the summons is served by post as provided in subsection (a) of this Article, a slip submitted to the Commission by the post office, signed to confirm delivery of the summons to the address where the person lives, shall be considered as proof of service of the summons.

(c) If the party to whom the summons is served is a company or an association, a slip submitted to the Commission by the post office, signed to confirm delivery of the summons to the address of the registered office of that company or association, shall be considered as proof of service of the summons on that party.

Appearing Before the Commission
45.
(a) Every person who receives a summons to appear before the Commission must appear before the Commission on the date and at the time specified in the summons.

(b) If a person who has received a summons to appear before the Commission as specified in subsection (a) of this Article fails to appear at the time specified in the summons without an acceptable excuse, or refuses to accept the summons, it shall be considered as disobedience to the Commission's order, and the Commission has the discretion to take action against him. If the person who fails to appear or refuses to accept the summons is the respondent, the Commission also has the discretion to have him brought before the Commission under detention.

(c) If a person who has received a summons to appear before the Commission is unable to appear due to an acceptable excuse, he must inform the Commission of the reason one (1) hour before the time specified in the summons. An acceptable excuse shall be considered the occurrence of one of the following situations:
(1) The person required to appear having an illness that prevents him from appearing before the Commission;
(2) Inability to travel by sea and land due to bad weather;
(3) Occurrence of another excuse acceptable to the Commission.
Chapter Ten

Procedure Upon Conclusion of an Investigation

Action After Investigating a Case
46. After investigating and concluding a case, the Commission shall act as follows:

(a) If the investigation was into an allegation that an employee or persons of an investigative body violated the law or regulations, to provide advice to that agency on the Commission's findings regarding the allegation and the course of action the Commission recommends the agency should take in the matter;

(b) If it is deemed necessary to press criminal charges in connection with an investigation or case conducted by the Commission, to send the matter to the Maldives Police Service or the Prosecutor General's Office for prosecution;

(c) If the Commission deems it necessary to amend the procedures or regulations in force in law enforcement agencies to prevent the recurrence of such a case, to provide advice on the matter to those agencies.

Decisions of the Commission
47.
(a) Unless otherwise specified in this law, the parties to whom proposals are submitted by the Commission after investigating and inquiring into a case must act on those proposals. And, after acting in accordance with the advice of the Commission, they must inform the Commission in writing within 30 (thirty) days.

(b) When the Commission sends a recommendation to an agency to take action against an employee of a law enforcement agency as specified in subsection (a) of this Article, if that agency has already taken action against that employee in connection with the case investigated by the Commission, it is not mandatory for that agency to take action against that employee in accordance with the Commission's proposal.

(c) In deciding cases investigated at the level of the entire Commission, in situations where the Commission does not reach a consensus, cases shall be decided by a majority of the Commission.
Chapter Eleven

Special Procedures

Information Obtained from an Investigation by Another Agency
48.
(a) If any agency with the legal authority to investigate is investigating a case of an employee of a law enforcement agency, information regarding that matter must be communicated to the Commission.

(b) If the Commission believes that information necessary for an investigation being conducted under this law is held by an institution that investigates with legal authority, the Commission has the discretion to request that information and to use such information.

Investigating a Case Related to a Matter Pending in Court
49. The Commission shall not investigate a case related to the work of an employee of a law enforcement agency while that case is pending in a court of law.

Protection Afforded to Members and Employees
50. No legal action shall be brought against a member, employee, or officer of the Commission for an act done or omitted in good faith, in their official capacity, in a manner not contrary to the law, while carrying out the responsibilities of the Commission and acting under the powers vested in the Commission.

Legal Duty to Provide Information
51. If any person has within their power any information relating to the subject of a case required to be investigated under this law, the person holding that information shall be deemed to be a person who has a legal responsibility to provide information in accordance with the limits prescribed by this law.

Maintaining Confidentiality
52.
(a) Information received by members in their capacity as members of the Commission is information that must be kept confidential. Such information shall not be disclosed to any party except to a party to whom disclosure is required as permitted by law.

(b) Information received by an employee of the Commission in their capacity as such is information that must be kept confidential. Such information shall not be disclosed to any party except to a party to whom disclosure is required as permitted by law.

Conflict of Interest
53. When the Commission is investigating a matter or case in which any member of the Commission has a personal interest, benefit, or role, that member shall not participate in any capacity in the investigation or decision of that matter or case. And even if it was not previously known that a case being investigated by the Commission is a matter or case in which such an interest, benefit, or role exists, upon becoming aware of it, the member shall inform the President of the Commission and shall recuse himself from investigating that matter or case or from making any decisions that need to be made in relation to that case.

Financial Matters
54.
(a) The funds required for the Commission to carry out its responsibilities shall be disbursed to the Commission from the state treasury each year under a budget passed by the People's Majlis. Accordingly, the Commission shall prepare a budget and send it to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury for inclusion in the state budget, in accordance with Law No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act) and the regulations made thereunder.

(b) All accounts and all documents of the Commission shall be maintained in accordance with Law No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act).

Accountability of the Commission to the People's Majlis
55. Members of the Commission shall appear before the People's Majlis or a committee thereof whenever required by the Majlis or its committee. And the members of the Commission shall answer truthfully to the best of their knowledge the questions put to them by the Majlis or its committee.

Auditing
56. The accounts of the Commission shall be audited once every year through an accountant acceptable to the Auditor General and appointed by the Commission for that purpose.

Annual Report
57.
(a) An annual report compiled on the activities of the Commission shall be sent to the President of the Republic, the People's Majlis, and law enforcement agencies before the 10th day of February of each year.

(b) The annual report specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall include the following matters that occurred during the period of the report:
(1) Cases submitted to the Commission;
(2) Cases decided by the Commission and the manner in which they were decided;
(3) Cases under investigation among the cases submitted;
(4) Matters proposed by the Commission during that period that need to be reformed and improved by law enforcement agencies;
(5) Among the matters proposed for reform, the actions taken by law enforcement agencies and the actions not taken.

(c) The report specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be publicly published by the Commission within 45 (forty-five) days of it being sent to the President of the Republic, the People's Majlis, and law enforcement agencies.

Special Report
58. In a special circumstance, if the Commission deems it necessary, the Commission has the discretion to submit a special report related to that situation to the President of the Republic, the People's Majlis, and law enforcement agencies.

Cases Under the Power of Investigation
59.
(a) A case may be submitted to the Commission under this law, and a case may be investigated by the Commission, only if the events on which the case is based occurred on a date after the commencement of this law, excluding cases submitted to a relevant government department at the time this law comes into effect.

(b) Among the cases submitted to the Commission, even if a case occurred after the commencement of this law, unless otherwise specified in this law, the Commission shall investigate that case only if not more than 2 (two) Gregorian years have passed between the date on which the events on which the case is based occurred and the date on which the case was submitted to the Commission.

Offenses and Penalties
60.
(a) Anyone who contravenes an order to appear before the Commission, or to provide information to the Commission, or to submit a document to the Commission, or an order to do or not to do something under a power vested in the Commission, may be prosecuted under Article 533 and/or Article 534 and/or Article 535 of Law No. 9/2014 (Maldives Penal Code) and sentenced, or may be fined an amount between MVR 500 (five hundred) and MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand), depending on the gravity of the act.

(b) Anyone who, without reasonable cause, refuses to comply when ordered by the Commission to provide evidence for an investigation under this law, may be prosecuted under Article 533 and/or Article 534 and/or Article 535 and/or Article 540 of Law No. 9/2014 (Maldives Penal Code) and sentenced, or may be fined an amount between MVR 500 (five hundred) and MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand), depending on the gravity of the act.

(c) If the parties to whom proposals are submitted by the Commission after investigating and inquiring into a case as specified in Article 47(a) of this law fail to act on those proposals without reasonable cause, they may be fined an amount between MVR 500 (five hundred) and MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand), depending on the gravity of the act.

(d) Anyone who contravenes Article 51 of this law may be fined an amount between MVR 500 (five hundred) and MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand), depending on the gravity of the act.

(e) Anyone who contravenes Article 52(a) or (b) of this law may be fined an amount between MVR 500 (five hundred) and MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand), depending on the gravity of the act.

Collection of Fines
61. A fine imposed under Article 60 of this law must be paid to the Commission within 3 (three) working days. If the fine is not paid, the relevant authority is empowered to collect that money in the manner prescribed for collecting property and money due to the state.
Chapter Twelve

Transitional Matters

Repealed and Amended Law
62.
(a) Upon the commencement of this Act, Articles 24 to 52 of Law No. 8/2011 (Maldives Customs Act) are hereby repealed.

(b) Upon the commencement of this Act, Article 17(c)(17), Articles 18 to 51, and Article 76(b)(3) of Law No. 5/2008 (Police Act) are hereby repealed.

(c) Upon the commencement of this Act, the Police Integrity Commission established under Law No. 5/2008 (Police Act) and the Customs Integrity Commission established under Law No. 8/2011 (Maldives Customs Act) are hereby abolished.

Procedure Regarding Employees
63.
(a) The employees of the Police Integrity Commission and the Customs Integrity Commission, which were in operation before the commencement of this Act, shall, upon the establishment of the National Integrity Commission under Article 3 of this Act, become employees of that Commission.

(b) In transferring employees to the Commission as specified in subsection (a) of this Article, no employee shall be transferred to a position lower than the one they held. And no employee shall be transferred to a position with a salary lower than the one they were receiving.

Unfinished Cases
64.
(a) Upon the commencement of this Act, if a case being investigated by the Police Integrity Commission and the Customs Integrity Commission is unfinished, that case shall be investigated by this Commission.

(b) Upon the commencement of this Act, if any case or transaction in which the Police Integrity Commission and the Customs Integrity Commission are parties is unfinished, this Commission shall become a party to that case or transaction.
Chapter Thirteen

Miscellaneous

Making and Implementing Regulations
65.
(a) The Commission shall formulate regulations containing the standards to be followed in investigating and inquiring into various cases, the manner of conducting the work of the Commission, the procedures to be followed in investigating cases, the manner of holding Commission meetings, and other matters concerning the Commission.

(b) All regulations required to be made under this law shall be made and published in the Government Gazette within 3 (three) months from the date this law comes into effect.

Commencement of the Law
66. This law shall come into effect 1 (one) month after this law is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette.

Definitions
67. Unless the context otherwise requires in this law, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given below:

(a) "Law enforcement agency" refers to the agencies specified in Article 6 of this law.

(b) "Officers" refers to the technical staff and consultants hired by the Commission under this law.

(c) "Disciplinary Committee" refers to the agency, committee, or board that takes administrative action against persons working in the law enforcement agencies specified in Article 6 of this law.

(d) "Auditor General" refers to the Auditor General appointed under Law No. 4/2007 (Audit Act).
