Law on Creating and Maintaining Competition in the Business Sector

Chapter One
Introduction

1. Introduction and Name

(a) This is the law that outlines the necessary principles to foster a competitive culture in the business sector of the Maldives, to advance and maintain the quality of businesses, and to stop the negative effects on the nation's economic progress caused by business practices that limit competition.

(b) This law shall be cited as the "Law on Creating and Maintaining Competition in the Business Sector."

2. Purpose

The purposes of this law are to achieve the following:

(a) To foster a competitive culture in the business sector and to promote and maintain a competitive environment in the business sector.

(b) To advance businesses and raise their standards by creating competition in the business sector.

(c) To encourage the introduction of new methods, new ideas, new products, and services in business by creating competition in the business sector.

(d) To open up opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in the Maldivian economy and to ensure such opportunities for them.

(e) To increase the choices and opportunities available to the public in purchasing goods and acquiring services; and

(f) To do the following in order to stop the negative effects on the nation's economic progress caused by business practices that limit competition.

(1) To prohibit agreements and business practices that hinder competition in the business sector.

(2) To prohibit a business that has a position of influence in the market from abusing such a position.

(3) To control mergers between businesses that may exceptionally hinder competition in the business sector.

3. Scope of the Law

(a) This law shall apply to transactions, business agreements, and other various business acts conducted by parties engaged in business in the Maldives in relation to obtaining goods and services.

(b) Even if the business acts mentioned in subsection (a) of this article are conducted outside the territory of the Maldives, if such an act affects the competition in any market of the Maldives, this law shall also apply to such acts.

(c) In the event that a business run by a state-owned enterprise is one that must operate in competition with other businesses active in its sector, this law shall also apply to that state-owned enterprise.

4. Exception

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Article 3 of this law, the principles set out in this law shall not apply to measures taken by the government or a local council under the sovereign powers vested in the state, nor to parties conducting business in Special Economic Zones under the Special Economic Zone Act.

Chapter Two
Agreements and Acts that Hinder Competition

5. Agreements and Acts that Hinder Competition

(a) Unless otherwise stated in this law, it is prohibited under this law for two or more parties engaged in business to enter into an agreement or commit an act with the objective of eliminating, hindering, or adversely changing the competition in the market for any good or service.

(b) For the purpose of this article, if an agreement between two or more parties engaged in business or an act committed between them results in the elimination, hindrance, or adverse change of competition in the market for any good or service, such an agreement or act shall be included among the agreements or acts specified in subsection (a) of this article.

(c) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this article, if any of the following is included in the objective or results from an agreement or act between two or more parties engaged in business, it shall be considered an act done to eliminate, hinder, or adversely change competition:

(1) Determining the selling or buying price of a good or service in the market.

(2) In addition to setting the price for the sale of a good or service, establishing other sales terms or conditions of sale.

(3) Allocating a specific market or specific customers.

(4) Controlling the quantity of a good produced or setting a limit on production.

(5) Businesses colluding to object to supplying goods to certain parties or to purchasing goods from certain parties.

(6) Exercising control in the development of technology used in providing goods or services.

(7) Exercising and maintaining control in investment.

(d) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this article, the meaning of an agreement includes agreements made in writing or verbally, whether in a formal or informal capacity.

6. Exception for Groups of Companies

Article 5 of this law shall not apply to agreements made between a company within a group of companies and another company within the same group.

7. Exemption Based on Public Benefit

(a) Even if an agreement or act by a business entity is of the kind specified in Article 5 of this law, the Minister has the power to grant an exemption to such an agreement or act if its result is the achievement of one of the following:

(1) If it leads to an improvement in production or distribution of goods, and such improvement provides a significant benefit to the public; or

(2) If it leads to technological or economic advancement, and such advancement provides a significant benefit to the public.

(b) If any party wishes to seek an exemption under this article, it must submit a request to the Minister in accordance with the regulations made under this law.

(c) The Minister has the power to grant exemptions under this article with specific conditions, in accordance with the regulations made under this law.

(d) A decision by the Minister to grant an exemption to a business entity under this article must state the reasons why such an exemption is seen to provide a significant benefit to the public.

(e) The regulations on the procedure for granting the exemption specified in this article shall be made by the Ministry and published in the Government Gazette within 6 (six) months from the date this law comes into effect.

8. Block Exemption

(a) If the Minister believes that a particular category of agreements are of the type specified in Article 7 of this law, the Minister has the power to grant a block exemption to all agreements of that category.

(b) If a block exemption is granted to any category of agreements as specified in subsection (a) of this article, it must be publicly announced.

(c) The Minister has the power to grant block exemptions under this article with specific conditions.

(d) The regulations on the procedure for granting block exemptions under this article shall be formulated by the Ministry and published in the Government Gazette within 6 (six) months from the date this law comes into effect.

9. Action

(a) The Minister has the power to take one of the following measures against a party that enters into an agreement or commits an act prohibited by Article 5 of this law, based on the magnitude of the act committed by that party:

(1) Order the amendment of such an agreement; or

(2) Order the cessation of such an act; or

(3) In addition to issuing an order as specified in subparagraph (1) or (2) of this paragraph, impose a fine of between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand).

(b) In a situation where an exemption is granted with specific conditions under Article 7(c) of this law, if the party receiving such an exemption violates any of those conditions, the Minister has the power to take one of the following measures:

(1) Revoke the exemption granted to that party; and

(2) Impose a fine of between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand).

(c) In a situation where a block exemption is granted with specific conditions under Article 8(c) of this law, if any party acts in violation of any of those conditions, the Minister has the power to take one of the following measures against the violating party:

(1) Order the cessation of the business activity conducted by that party in violation of the conditions established under Article 8(c) of this law; and

(2) Impose a fine of between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand).

Chapter Three
Abuse of a Dominant Market Position by a Business

10. Abuse of Position

Unless otherwise stated in this law, it is prohibited for a business entity that holds a position of influence in selling a good or service in a market to do any of the following, whether on its own or in conjunction with another party, in order to abuse the position held by that business entity:

(a) Providing a good or service at a price lower than its cost with the intention of eliminating a competing business entity.

(b) Setting an unfair price with the intention of eliminating a competing business entity.

(c) Refusing to supply goods to a particular business or businesses with the intention of eliminating a competing business entity.

(d) Controlling the production of goods or the development of technology in a manner that harms customers.

(e) Controlling the number of outlets where a good or service is available in a manner that harms customers.

(f) Discriminating between two businesses in the same situation in relation to similar transactions, or setting different conditions for such a business, with the intention of driving a competing business out of the market, preventing a business from entering a particular market, or denying a business the opportunity to expand; or

(g) Conditioning the making of a necessary agreement in a business transaction on the other party to the agreement agreeing to fulfill other additional obligations. And for these conditioned obligations to be, in their nature or even when considered for business purposes, obligations that have no connection whatsoever with the main subject of such an agreement.

11. Factors in Determining a Position of Influence

For the purpose of Article 10 of this law, a particular party shall be determined to be a party holding a position of influence in selling a good or providing a service in a market by considering the nature of the market for that good or service, the number and proportion of parties active in that market, and by reference to the power that party has to change market prices or the quantity of goods released to the market or the business conditions of that market, or the position it holds to control a reasonable proportion of the market share.

12. Action Against Parties Abusing their Position

The Minister has the power to impose a fine of between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand) on a party that commits an act prohibited by Article 10 of this law.

Chapter Four
Exemption of Certain Types of Business Activities

13. Exemption

(a) The Minister has the power to exempt certain types of businesses from Articles 5 and 10 of this law, by giving due consideration to the way a business operates in a particular market and the extent to which it is involved in providing a service of general economic interest.

(b) The regulations on the procedure for granting exemptions as specified in subsection (a) of this article shall be made by the Ministry and published in the Government Gazette within 6 (six) months from the date this law comes into effect.

(c) A decision by the Minister to exempt a certain type of business under subsection (a) of this article shall be published in the Government Gazette.

14. Exemption of Agreements for the Purpose of a Merger

Agreements for the purpose of a merger between one business and another are exempted from Articles 5 and 10 of this law.

Chapter Five
Rules Regarding Mergers

15. Merger

(a) Unless otherwise stated in this law, it is prohibited under this law to effect a merger if, as a result of the merger, business competition in any market for the provision of goods and services in the Maldives is exceptionally diminished, or if the opportunity to influence business competition in the market is broadened.

(b) For the purposes of this Article, the following shall be considered a merger:

(1) The amalgamation or merger of two or more business entities that exist as separate legal persons;

(2) The direct or indirect acquisition of control over the whole or part of another business entity or other business entities by one or more persons or by business entities;

(3) The acquisition by one business entity of the assets, or a substantial part of the assets, of another business entity, including its goodwill, where the result is that the acquiring entity gains the power to operate the business previously run by the selling entity in its place.

(c) For the purpose of this article, if any person or business entity has a position of influence over the business activities of another party, either directly or indirectly, due to rights held, an agreement made, or any other matter, or due to some or all of the aforementioned, the control of such a person or business entity shall be deemed to exist over the other party.

(d) For the purpose of subsection (c) of this article, control shall be deemed to exist if one of the following situations arises due to a connection with any person or business entity:

(1) Having ownership of the assets of a business entity or the right to use the assets or the right to use part of the assets; or

(2) Having rights or an agreement that confers a position to influence, directly or indirectly, the composition of the board of a business entity, voting in matters, or decision-making.

(e) Joint ventures that fulfill the following conditions are included within the meaning of a merger as specified in subsection (b)(2) of this article:

(1) A joint venture created to work together on a long-term basis; and

(2) Having to perform all the responsibilities required of an independently operating business within the general operations of that joint venture.

(f) For the purposes of subsections (c) and (d) of this article, when determining whether a person or business entity has a position of influence, in addition to considering the rights held by that party and any agreement made by it, consideration must be given to the extent and circumstances of the impact of these factors on all surrounding matters.

16. What Shall Not Be Considered a Merger

The following are circumstances that shall not be considered a merger under this law:

(a) The transfer of control of a business entity to a liquidator or any other party for the purpose of carrying out such a responsibility due to the winding up of the business; or

(b) The parties participating in a merger are, directly or indirectly, under the control of a single party;

(c) The acquisition of control of a business by a person as a result of receiving property through a will or gift, or as a result of the distribution of inherited property.

17. Exemption for Mergers Between State-Owned Enterprises

In the event that the government decides to effect a merger between two state-owned enterprises, such a merger is exempted from the principle specified in Article 15(a) of this law.

18. Exemption for Mergers Between Parties Engaged in Exempted Business Activities

The principle specified in Article 15(a) of this law shall not apply to a merger between two or more parties engaged in business activities exempted under Article 13 of this law.

19. Exemption Based on Economic Efficiencies to be Gained

(a) If it is believed that the economic efficiencies to be gained from a merger in a significant manner outweigh the exceptionally diminished business competition or the adverse effects that would arise in a particular market as a result of the merger, the Minister has the power to exempt such a merger from the principle specified in Article 15(a) of this law.

(b) A party participating in a merger that fulfills the condition specified in subsection (a) of this article may apply to the Minister for an exemption.

(c) A decision by the Minister to grant an exemption for a merger under subsection (a) of this article must state the reasons why such an exemption is seen to result in significant economic efficiencies.

(d) The regulations on the procedure for granting exemptions as specified in subsection (a) of this article shall be made by the Ministry and published in the Government Gazette within 6 (six) months from the date this law comes into effect.

20. Establishing the Threshold

(a) The Ministry shall establish a threshold within 6 (six) months from the date this law comes into effect for determining whether business competition in the business sector is exceptionally diminished or the opportunity to influence the market is broadened as a result of a merger under Article 15(a) of this law.

(b) The threshold mentioned in subsection (a) of this article shall be a threshold to be determined by looking at the prevailing situation in the business sector at the time.

(c) The threshold mentioned in subsection (a) of this article shall be established by the Ministry and published for the public.

21. Transitional Period

The principles set out in this chapter shall come into effect from the date of completion of 12 (twelve) months from the date this law comes into effect.

22. Action

The Minister has the power to take the following measures against parties who effect a merger prohibited by Article 15(a) of this law:

(a) Order the amendment of the agreement made for the merger; and

(b) Impose a fine of between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand).

23. Power Vested in the Registrar of Businesses

(a) If the ownership of property or part of the ownership of property is to be transferred between the parties involved in a merger prohibited by Article 15(a) of this law, and as long as the parties involved in such a merger do not act in accordance with an order issued by the Minister under Article 22(a) of this law, the Registrar of Businesses has the power not to proceed with matters within the jurisdiction of the Registrar of Businesses among the procedures that must be completed under the relevant laws for the transfer of ownership.

(b) The matters to be considered by the Registrar of Businesses in exercising the discretion granted under subsection (a) of this article shall be specified in the regulations made under this law.

Chapter Six
Implementation of the Law

24. Primary Responsible Authority

(a) The Minister shall bear the primary responsibility for the implementation and enforcement of the matters set out in this law regarding the creation and maintenance of competition in the business sector.

(b) The Minister is vested with all the powers directly required for the implementation of the matters set out in this law, and all the powers that facilitate the full implementation of those matters, under this law.

25. Responsibilities and Powers of the Ministry

(a) The responsibilities that the Ministry must perform under this law are as follows:

(1) To make and implement the regulations required under this law.

(2) To formulate the policies necessary to encourage the introduction of new business methods, new ideas, new products, and services by creating competition in the business sector, and to further open up the choices and opportunities available to the public in purchasing goods and acquiring services.

(3) To study and assess the level of business competition in various markets.

(4) To manage and oversee matters specified in this law and the regulations made hereunder concerning agreements and acts that hinder business competition.

(5) To stop agreements and business practices that hinder business competition.

(6) To manage and oversee matters specified in this law and the regulations made hereunder concerning acts committed by a business entity holding a position of influence in a particular market to hinder business competition by abusing that position.

(7) To stop acts committed by a business entity holding a position of influence in a particular market to hinder business competition by abusing that position.

(8) To manage and oversee matters relating to mergers as specified in this law, and to stop mergers prohibited under this law.

(9) To manage and oversee matters relating to the granting of exemptions in matters where the Minister is empowered to grant exemptions under this law, in accordance with the provisions of this law and the regulations made hereunder.

(10) To take action against parties who violate this law and the regulations made hereunder, in accordance with the law.

(11) To investigate complaints submitted to the Ministry concerning agreements and acts prohibited under this law and to take action against the responsible parties in accordance with this law and the regulations made hereunder.

(12) In a situation where the Ministry takes action under this law, to make public the party against whom the action was taken and the action taken against that party.

(13) To do all things necessary to achieve the purposes set out in Article 2 of this law; and

(14) To raise awareness among business entities and the public in order to create and maintain competition in the business sector.

(b) The powers vested in the Ministry under this law to perform the responsibilities specified in subsection (a) of this article are as follows:

(1) To investigate and take action on cases concerning parties who violate this law.

(2) To order a party to a case being investigated by the Ministry to provide the documents required to make a decision in that case.

(3) To investigate complaints submitted to the Ministry by any party alleging that another party is acting in violation of this law or that they have suffered damages as a result of such a violation, and to take action against the responsible parties.

(4) To issue the orders that need to be issued by the Ministry for the enforcement of this law; and

(5) To order the cessation of an agreement or business act prohibited under this law, and to submit a case to court seeking the annulment of an agreement or the cessation of a business act of parties who do not comply with such an order.

26. Investigation of a Case on the Ministry's Own Initiative

(a) If it is believed that any party is acting in violation of this law, the Ministry has the power to investigate that matter on its own initiative.

(b) The regulations on the procedure for investigating a case under subsection (a) of this article shall be made by the Ministry and published in the Government Gazette within 6 (six) months from the date this law comes into effect.

27. Submission of Complaints

(a) The Ministry shall establish a system through which the public or business entities can submit complaints against parties who violate this law.

(b) The regulations on the submission of complaints under subsection (a) of this article and the procedure for handling complaints submitted to the Ministry shall be made by the Ministry and published in the Government Gazette within 6 (six) months from the date this law comes into effect. And the period within which the Ministry shall investigate and decide on complaints submitted under this article shall be specified in those regulations.

28. Procedures to be Completed in Investigating a Case

The following procedures must be completed when investigating cases initiated by the Ministry on its own initiative and when investigating cases initiated by the Ministry as a result of a complaint submitted to it:

(a) To notify the party who submitted the case or complaint in writing that the case or complaint has been registered with the Ministry.

(b) To provide the party to whom the case is directed an opportunity to respond to the case; and

(c) Upon completion of the investigation, to notify the party who submitted the case and the party to whom the case was directed of the Ministry's decision in writing.

29. Appealing a Case

If a case submitted to the Ministry under this law is decided by the Ministry in a manner that contradicts this law or a regulation made under this law, or by using a power not vested in the Ministry, the party who submitted the case, or any party to the case, or any party who may be affected by the decision, has the right to submit the decision to the court for appeal within 30 (thirty) days of the decision, excluding official holidays.

30. Right to Sue for Damages

A party who has suffered direct damages as a result of an act prohibited under this law has the right to sue in court for compensation for the direct damages suffered by that party.

Chapter Seven
General Provisions

31. Commencement of the Law

This law shall come into effect on the date of completion of 6 (six) months from the date this law is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette.

32. Making and Implementing Regulations

(a) The regulations required to be made under this law shall be made and implemented by the Ministry.

(b) Unless otherwise stated in this law, the regulations required to be made under this law shall be made by the Ministry and published in the Government Gazette within 6 (six) months from the date this law comes into effect.

33. Confidentiality

Appropriate measures must be taken to maintain the confidentiality of the following information received by the Ministry under this law:

(a) All information that can be considered business secrets among the business-related information submitted by business entities under this law and the information obtained during investigations conducted by the authority enforcing this law; and

(b) The personal information of parties who report activities in violation of this law and parties who provide information for investigations conducted by the Ministry.

34. Definitions

Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms and phrases shall have the meanings given below:

(a) "Business" refers to any party that conducts any business activity or activities in relation to a good or service.

(b) "Goods" refers to tangible property, intangible property including intellectual property, and movable and immovable property.

(c) "Business entity" or "undertaking" refers to companies operating under Law No. 10/96 (Maldives Companies Act), cooperative societies operating under Law No. 3/2007 (Cooperative Societies Act), partnerships operating under Law No. 13/2011 (Partnership Act), and sole proprietorships operating under Law No. 19/2014 (Sole Proprietorship Act).

(d) "Business practices" refers to various business arrangements and practices.

(e) "Market" refers to a market for a good in the Maldives.

(f) "State-owned enterprise" refers to a company formed in accordance with Article 95 of Law No. 10/96 (Maldives Companies Act).

(g) "Supply" refers to making a good or service available to the market by sale, exchange, lease, or on a deferred payment basis.

(h) "Price" refers to anything given in exchange for a good or service.

(i) "Group of companies" refers to a group that includes a holding company and subsidiary companies as specified in Article 86(a) of Law No. 3/2010 (Tax Administration Act).

(j) "Joint venture" refers to a business entity specifically created for the purpose of conducting a particular business under an agreement between two business entities.

(k) "Registrar of Businesses" refers to the party specified in Article 3 of Law No. 18/2014 (Business Registration Act).

(l) "Minister" refers to the Minister of the government ministry designated to implement economic policies.

(m) "Ministry" refers to the government ministry designated to implement economic policies.

(n) "Court" refers to, in Malé, the Civil Court mentioned in Article 53(b)(1) of Law No. 22/2014 (Maldives Courts Act). Or in any other island of the Maldives, the Magistrate Courts mentioned in Chapter Four of that law, in accordance with the jurisdiction vested in that court.

(o) "Market or customer allocation" refers to the division of a market or customers between two or more parties, and the designation of a specific segment to be served by each party.

(p) "Special Economic Zone Act" refers to Law No. 24/2014 (Special Economic Zone Act).

(q) "Service of general economic interest" refers to services of public utility such as electricity, water, sewerage, and telephone services, and includes other services related to the general needs of the people and publicly available to them, such as telecommunications, postal services, public transport, waste disposal, and other such services.
