Law on the Protection of Buyers of Goods and Recipients of Services

Chapter One
Introduction

1. Introduction and Name

(a) This is a law that establishes and protects the rights of buyers of goods and recipients of services in the Maldives, determines the responsibilities of sellers of goods or providers of services, establishes the standards that must be met in the sale of goods and provision of services, and sets out the procedures for taking action against those who violate these standards.

(b) This Law shall be cited as the "Law on the Protection of Buyers of Goods and Recipients of Services."

2. Purpose

The purpose of this Law is to achieve the following:

(a) To establish the rights of buyers of goods and recipients of services;

(b) To establish the conditions that must be met by goods sold or services provided;

(c) To determine the responsibilities of sellers of goods and providers of services;

(d) To state the prohibited acts in the sale of goods or provision of services;

(e) To set out the principles for determining the amount of compensation in situations where buyers of goods and recipients of services must be compensated;

(f) To set out the principles that must be followed by sellers of goods and providers of services through electronic means; and

(g) To create the post of a Consumer Ombudsman to investigate matters related to upholding or infringing upon the rights of buyers of goods and recipients of services, and to determine the powers and responsibilities of the Consumer Ombudsman.

Chapter Two
Conditions to be Met by Sold Goods

3. Conditions to be Met by Goods

Sold goods must fulfill the conditions stated in this Chapter.

4. Conditions for Goods Sold Separately or Provided in Connection with a Service

The conditions stated in this Chapter must be fulfilled when a specific good is sold or when a good is sold in connection with a service being received.

5. Ownership of Goods

When selling a good, the following conditions regarding the ownership of the good must be met:

(a) The seller must have ownership of the good and the right to sell the good;

(b) The sold good must not be a good over which any other party has a right; and

(c) The good must be one that the buyer has the full authority to use.

6. Quality of Goods

(a) When selling a good, it must be of acceptable quality.

(b) In subsection (a) of this Article, a good is stated to be of acceptable quality if it fulfills certain conditions, including the following:

(1) The good is fit for all the purposes for which goods of that kind are commonly used;

(2) It is acceptable in appearance and finish;

(3) It is free from defects;

(4) The good is safe for its intended use;

(5) The good is durable for a reasonable period, considering its purpose and type; and

(6) If the good is specific for a particular purpose, it is fit for that purpose.

(c) In determining whether a purchased good is of acceptable quality, the following shall be considered:

(1) The nature of such goods in general;

(2) The price of the good;

(3) Information provided in advertisements, information, and labels by the seller or manufacturer regarding the use and special features of the good;

(4) Any other relevant matter relating to the transaction of purchasing the good.

(d) The good was not defective at the time of supply;

(e) The defect in the good could not have been reasonably known at the time, given the state of scientific and technical knowledge.

7. Prior Notification of Defects

When selling a good, if any defect or imperfection in the good has been brought to the attention of the buyer in accordance with Article 11 of this Law, the good shall be considered to be of acceptable quality.

8. Display of Goods

If a good is displayed for sale with a notice indicating that it has a defect or imperfection, in a manner visible to buyers, the defect or imperfection shall be deemed to have been brought to the buyer's attention beforehand.

9. Use of Goods

If a particular good is used in a manner in which it is not normally used, but would be of acceptable quality if used in its normal manner, it shall be considered a good of acceptable quality.

10. Altered Goods

If a person sells a good that has been reconditioned, reassembled, or otherwise modified after obtaining it, and sells it with the trademark of the original manufacturer or supplier, a notice stating that the good has been so altered must be provided with the good to the buyer.

11. Goods Containing a Defect or Flaw

(a) Except in the circumstances described in subsection (b) of this Article, the sale of a defective good is prohibited.

(b) If the use of a defective good does not pose any risk to the safety of the buyer, the good may be sold after informing the buyer of the defect in the good.

(c) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of this Article, any good intended for consumption or any perishable good with a specified expiration date shall not be sold after its expiration date or if it is unfit for consumption.

(d) For the purpose of this Article, the definition of a defective good includes goods that do not meet the conditions specified in this Law, or do not meet the technical requirements they should have, or goods for which the specified period for use in its best quality has expired.

12. Fitness for a Particular Purpose

(a) If a good sold is for a specific purpose, it must be fit for that purpose.

(b) A sold good shall be deemed fit for a particular purpose if the following conditions are met:

(1) Before purchasing the good, the buyer has stated or implied to the seller that the good is being bought for a particular purpose; and

(2) The seller has stated that the purchased good is fit for a particular purpose.

13. Non-fulfillment of Condition

In the following situations, a good purchased for a particular purpose shall not be considered to have failed to meet its condition:

(a) The buyer acted contrary to the seller's instructions in using the sold good; or

(b) It was not reasonable to act in accordance with the seller's instructions.

14. Goods with a Specific Description

(a) If a good is sold as a good with specific characteristics, it must possess those characteristics.

(b) If a good is sold by description, it must correspond with the description, even if it is sold from a place where it is displayed.

15. Goods Corresponding with a Sample

(a) If a good is sold by reference to a sample, the good must correspond with the sample.

(b) If a good is sold by reference to a sample, the buyer must be given a reasonable opportunity to compare the good with the sample.

(c) When selling a good by reference to a sample, if there is any difference in the good, this must be brought to the buyer's attention before the purchase.

(d) If a good is sold by reference to a sample, it must not have any defect apparent on reasonable examination of the sample.

(e) If a good is sold by reference to a sample, it must meet the conditions specified in Article 6(b) of this Law.

(f) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Article 12(b) of this Law, if a good is sold by reference to both a sample and a description, it must correspond with both.

16. Price of Goods

(a) No good shall be offered for sale unless its price is clearly indicated to the buyer.

(b) The price of a good shall be considered clearly indicated in the following circumstances:

(1) If the price is written, printed, or affixed directly on the good, or if the price is written or affixed at the place where the good is displayed;

(2) Even if the price is affixed in a place mentioned in sub-paragraph (1), it must be clear that it is the price of that good; or

(3) If a leaflet, magazine, or catalog related to the good states that it is the current price of the good or that the price is valid for a specific period.

(c) Except for goods whose price is controlled under this Law or whose price is determined by a specific law, it is prohibited to sell a good at a price higher than its stated price.

(d) Notwithstanding subsection (c) of this Article, in the following situations, the price of a good being higher than its stated price shall not be considered as selling the good at a price higher than its stated price:

(1) Where the price is determined under a contract;

(2) Where it is agreed to determine the price under a contract;

(3) Where the price is determined by the course of dealing between the seller and the buyer.

17. Manufacturer's Guarantee

(a) In the circumstances described in this Article, sellers of goods must honor the guarantee given in connection with a good they sell.

(1) The seller has provided a guarantee.

(2) The guarantee has been given to the buyer under an authorization from the manufacturer.

(3) In a situation where it is not proven that a guarantee in a document provided by the seller is not a guarantee given by that party.

(b) For the purposes of this Article, a guarantee given by a manufacturer is a statement by the manufacturer regarding the following matters:

(1) The quality, performance, or characteristics of the good;

(2) Any service to be provided in connection with the good;

(3) Any additional parts to be provided with the good;

(4) Any similar good or part of a good that is stated to be provided in connection with the good;

(5) The price of the good or any other consideration stated to be returned if the good does not meet a specific condition.

Chapter Three
Rights of the Buyer of Goods

18. Rights of the Buyer of Goods

Buyers of goods have the rights stated in this Chapter.

19. Right to Return Goods

(a) If a good purchased without a specific agreement between the seller and the buyer does not meet the quality standards specified in Article 6 of this Law, the buyer has the right to return the good to the seller within a reasonable period, or to receive a refund of the price paid for the good, or to receive a similar good in its place.

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this Article, a reasonable period shall be determined by considering the following, from the time of purchase, to establish a period within which any defects in the good would reasonably come to the buyer's attention:

(1) The type of good;

(2) The circumstances in which the good is used;

(3) The reasonable period for which the good is expected to be used; and

(4) The reasonable period within which, given the type of good, defects in it would become apparent upon use.

(c) The principle in subsection (a) of this Article shall not apply in the following situations:

(1) The transfer of the good to another party is prohibited by law or regulation for reasons of public health risk;

(2) The buyer has altered or modified a part or the whole of the good in such a way that its original state is lost.

(d) Unless otherwise agreed between the seller and the buyer, the circumstances in which the seller may charge a fee or charge for costs incurred in returning a good under subsection (a) of this Article shall be specified in a regulation made under this Law.

20. Right to Return Part of the Goods

A person who has the right to return goods under Article 19 of this Law also has the right to return part of the goods.

21. Right to be Informed if a Good is Damaged

If a good is damaged, or if it cannot be used to its full potential, the buyer must be informed of this before the good is sold.

22. Right to Inspect and Test Goods

In order to ascertain that a purchased good is not damaged and has not sustained any kind of loss, if the buyer requests to inspect and test the good, the buyer has the right to be shown the good and, if it is a type of good that can be tested, to have it tested in their presence.

23. Right to Sue

If a condition specified in this Law is not met in a purchased good, or if another article of this Law is violated, buyers of goods have the right to submit a case to the Ombudsman appointed under this Law or to sue to obtain compensation for the resulting damages.

Chapter Four
Conditions to be Met by Received Services

24. Scope of this Chapter

This Chapter shall apply to the following parties:

(a) Businesses registered and operating in the Maldives; and

(b) Businesses that are required by law to be registered but operate without registration.

25. Due Care and Skill

A service must be provided by persons who possess the skill to provide that service, with the exercise of due care in its provision.

26. Use of Suitable Materials in Providing a Service

Materials used to provide a service must be suitable for carrying out that task or providing that service.

27. Fitness for a Particular Purpose

(a) If a recipient of a service informs the service provider, before or while obtaining the service, of the result desired from the service, the service must achieve that result.

(b) In situations where the recipient of the service does not act in accordance with the instructions given by the service provider, or where it is not reasonable for the recipient to rely on the skill and advice of the service provider, it shall not be deemed that the condition specified in subsection (a) of this Article has not been fulfilled.

28. Time for Service

Except in the following situations, a recipient of a service must receive that service within a reasonable time:

(a) The time is fixed by a contract;

(b) It is agreed to fix a time under a contract;

(c) It is agreed to fix a time through the course of dealing between the service provider and the recipient.

29. Price of a Service

(a) Except in the following situations, the price payable by a recipient for a service shall not be more than a reasonable price for obtaining that service:

(1) Where the price is determined by a contract;

(2) Where it is agreed to determine the price under a contract;

(3) Where the price is determined by the course of dealing between the service provider and the recipient.

(b) For the purpose of this Article, a reasonable price shall be determined after considering the manner in which the transaction took place. If the price of the service is determined by a specific law, the reasonable price shall be the price stated in that law.

Chapter Five
Rights of Recipients of Services

30. Right to Sue

Except in the following situations, recipients of services have the right to sue for compensation for damages incurred due to the non-fulfillment of a condition specified in this Law in a received service or the violation of another article of the Law:

(a) The condition was not fulfilled due to an act or omission of a person other than the service provider, or by following instructions given by such a person;

(b) The condition was not fulfilled due to a cause beyond one's control.

31. Right to Demand Correction of a Received Service

If there is a problem with a received service, the recipient has the right to demand that the service provider correct it within a reasonable period.

32. Major Failures in a Received Service

(a) If a failure in a received service is, by its nature, a major failure and cannot be remedied, the recipient of the service has the right to terminate the agreement for the service within a reasonable period and to seek compensation for the resulting damages.

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this Article, a failure is considered major by its nature if it results in a substantially different outcome from what is generally expected from the service, or if it is unusable, or cannot be remedied within a reasonable time, or is not safe.

(c) In the following situations, the right to seek compensation for damages provided under subsection (a) of this Article does not apply:

(1) The received service is an additional service received under an agreement to supply goods; and

(2) The buyer of the good has the right to return what is received from that service.

Chapter Six
Responsibilities of Sellers of Goods and Providers of Services

33. Non-Discrimination

Sellers of goods and providers of services shall not unfairly discriminate against any particular person in the sale of goods or provision of services.

34. Unconscionable Conduct

(a) In carrying out any of the following acts, a seller of goods or provider of services shall not use force, coercion, unfair business tactics, or any other unconscionable conduct in the sale of goods or provision of services:

(1) Marketing a good or service;

(2) Supplying a good or service;

(3) Negotiating, entering into, or attempting to enforce an agreement to supply a good or service;

(4) Attempting to collect the price of a good or service from the buyer;

(5) Attempting to repossess goods from the buyer.

(b) In addition to the acts mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article, a seller of goods or provider of services shall not, knowing that a buyer or recipient of a service is unable to protect their rights in relation to the good or service due to a physical or mental disability, illiteracy, or any other similar reason, act in a manner that would cause the loss of that person's rights.

35. Situations Where Goods May Be Withheld from Sale

In the following situations, goods may be withheld from sale to persons wishing to buy them:

(a) Temporarily not selling the goods, stating the reason, in order to complete legally required matters;

(b) Having sold a reasonable quantity of the good to the person who came to buy it on that occasion;

(c) A wholesaler being asked to sell goods in a quantity smaller than the quantity they normally sell.

36. Price of Goods to be Visible

(a) Except for goods exempted by the Ministry, if any other good is sold individually or wholesale, the selling price of the good must be written on the good or displayed at the place in a manner visible to buyers.

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this Article, the Ministry shall publicize the exempted goods.

37. Not Selling Goods with Conditions Other Than Price

(a) No one shall sell a good by making it a condition that the buyer must purchase another good with it, or that in order to purchase the good, the buyer must do something other than paying the price of the good.

(b) This Article does not prevent the sale of items packaged together by the manufacturer or supplier, where more than one of the same type or more than one type of item are packaged together, or the sale of a good available for individual purchase, packaged with another good or goods, to a person who requests to buy it separately.

38. Price and Conditions of Service to be Known

(a) The service provider must display the price of the service, and if the service is provided on specific conditions, those conditions must be written and displayed in an easily visible manner at the place of service. Alternatively, if a person requesting the service so desires, a document containing that information must be available from the place of service.

(b) If any form to be filled out to request a service is in a foreign language, arrangements must be made at the place of service for all matters related to filling out the form to be done in the Dhivehi language as well.

39. Labeling of Goods

Food items imported for sale, or produced in the Maldives, or packaged in packets, cans, bottles, or boxes, must have written on them or on the can, bottle, packet, or box in which they are packaged, in the manner prescribed in the regulations made by the Ministry, the type of item, its ingredients, weight or quantity, date of manufacture, and if an expiration date is set for its use, that date, and if it is an item that must be used in a particular way, the method of use.

40. Not Selling Expired or Spoiled Items

Items for which a specific period of use has been set shall not be displayed for sale after that period has expired, and items that are unfit for human consumption or use due to spoilage or deterioration shall not be displayed for sale.

41. Providing a Receipt

If a buyer of a good or a recipient of a service requests a receipt for the sale of a good or the provision of a service, the seller or service provider must provide the buyer or recipient with a receipt containing the following information:

(a) The name, quantity, and type of the good or service;

(b) The price of the good or service;

(c) The date on which the good was sold or the service was provided;

(d) The name and address of the seller of the good or the provider of the service.

Chapter Seven
Safety Standards for Goods and Services and Liability in Relation to Goods and Services

42. Safety or Other Standards

(a) The Ministry or other relevant authority shall establish safety or other standards that must be met by a sold good or a provided service.

(b) This Article does not prevent the establishment of different standards for a particular good or a particular service.

(c) Safety standards for a good shall be established to include the following:

(1) The manner in which the good may be used, or the substances used in its manufacture, or the method of manufacturing the good or the manufacturing process, or the design of the good, or the way the good is packaged, or the condition the good must be in upon completion of manufacture;

(2) Testing during the manufacture of the good or in the manufacturing process;

(3) Instructions, markings, or warnings regarding matters to be aware of that must be on the good.

(d) If no safety or other standards have been established for a sold good or a provided service, the seller or service provider must ensure, when selling the good or providing the service, that the good or service meets a standard that provides a reasonable level of safety for those who use them.

43. Compliance with Established Standards

It is prohibited for any person to sell any good or provide any service in a manner that contravenes the standards established under Article 42 of this Law.

44. Defenses

(a) In the following situations, a sold good or a provided service shall not be considered to have contravened Article 43 of this Law:

(1) The contravention arose from complying with a standard established under another law;

(2) The contravention arose in connection with a matter unrelated to the standards established under Article 42 of this Law.

(b) In a case concerning a contravention of a matter specified in this Chapter, if the seller or service provider proves that it was not reasonable to know that a standard had been contravened at the time the good was sold or the service was provided, it shall not be considered a contravention of the standards specified in this Chapter.

45. Prohibition of Sale of Goods or Provision of Services

(a) If the Minister finds that a particular good being sold or a particular service being provided is unsafe, the Minister has the power to prohibit the sale of that good or the provision of that service.

(b) If the sale of a good or the provision of a service is prohibited under this Article, it shall be announced in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

(c) In an order prohibiting the sale of a good or the provision of a service under subsection (a) of this Article, the Minister has the power to order the following:

(1) To remove the goods displayed for sale;

(2) To cease the sale of a good or the provision of a service;

(3) To remove or stop advertisements for the sale of a good or provision of a service;

(4) To provide information to the public regarding that good or service;

(5) To rectify the prohibited good or service;

(6) To refund the money or part of the money to a person who has bought a prohibited good or obtained a service.

(d) A good or service that contravenes the standards established under this Chapter shall not be imported into the Maldives. For the purpose of this Article, a good or service regulated by another law or regulation is exempted.

46. Defective Goods

(a) If a good does not provide the safety that persons are generally entitled to expect, it shall be regarded as a defective good.

(b) For the purpose of this Article, in determining whether a good does not provide the safety persons are generally entitled to expect, all the circumstances of the transaction shall be taken into account, including the following:

(1) The manner in which the good was marketed and the purpose for which it was marketed;

(2) The way the good was advertised;

(3) The instructions or warnings on the good regarding its use or matters to be aware of;

(4) The way the good is commonly used or could be used;

(5) The time when the good was supplied.

47. Right to Sue in Relation to a Defective Good

Persons who purchase a defective good have the right to sue for compensation for damages resulting from the purchase.

48. Liability in Relation to a Defective Good

(a) Liability for damage caused by a defective good shall be borne by one of the following parties:

(1) The producer of the good;

(2) The person who, by putting a mark or label on the good, has held himself out to be the producer;

(3) The person who imported the good into the Maldives for the purpose of supplying it;

(4) The seller of the good.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, where, under this Chapter, more than one person is liable for the damage caused by a defective good, the liability shall be borne by all parties jointly and severally.

49. Defenses

In a case brought in relation to a defective good, if the person liable for the matter proves the following, that person shall not be liable for the damage caused by the good:

(a) The defect in the good arose from compliance with a requirement imposed by another law;

(b) The defective good was not supplied at any time;

(c) The good was not defective at the time it was supplied;

(d) The state of scientific and technical knowledge at the time was not such that the existence of the defect could have been discovered by a reasonable person.

50. Direct Marketing

(a) Every person has the right to refuse to accept direct marketing activities conducted by a seller of goods or a provider of services in connection with a good being sold or a service being provided.

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this Article, this may be done in one of the following ways:

(1) Refusing it when it is offered directly;

(2) Requesting the cessation of marketing activities conducted by approaching the person directly;

(3) Blocking direct activities conducted through communication or any other means, other than activities conducted by approaching the person directly.

(c) If the buyer of goods or recipient of services requests to act in the manner specified in sub-paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b), the seller or provider of services must make those arrangements within a reasonably short period.

(d) In a situation where a buyer of goods or a recipient of services requests to act in one of the ways specified in subsection (b) of this Article, the seller or provider of services shall not charge any fee or charge for it.

(e) Prohibited acts by sellers of goods or providers of services in relation to direct marketing, and other relevant principles, shall be specified in a regulation made under this Law.

Chapter Eight
Unfair Practices

51. False or Misleading Statements or Advertisements

It is prohibited for a seller of goods or a provider of services, whether by words or conduct, to do any of the following in the sale or supply of goods, provision of services, or advertising:

(a) To state or advertise in a misleading, deceptive, or false manner, the type, method of manufacture, special characteristics, quality, fitness for a particular purpose, or available quantity of a good;

(b) To state or advertise in a misleading, deceptive, or false manner, the type, special characteristics, quality, or fitness for a particular purpose of a service;

(c) To state or advertise in a misleading, deceptive, or false manner, that a good is new or has not been previously used;

(d) To state or advertise in a misleading, deceptive, or false manner, that the price of a good or service has been reduced;

(e) To state or advertise in a misleading, deceptive, or false manner, that a seller of goods or provider of services is approved by, or affiliated with, a particular person;

(f) To state or advertise in a misleading, deceptive, or false manner, the benefits derived from a guarantee or warranty of a good.

52. Acting in a Misleading Manner

(a) It is prohibited for a seller of goods or a provider of services to do any of the following in the sale, supply of goods, or provision of services:

(1) To do anything in a misleading manner regarding the type of a sold good or a provided service, the method of manufacturing the good, the method of providing the service, its special characteristics, quality, fitness for a particular purpose, or available quantity;

(2) To provide information in an unbelievable or misleading manner regarding a special characteristic of a sold good or a provided service, or to fail, with the intent to mislead, to provide information that the buyer or recipient of the service ought to have known;

(3) Knowing that the buyer or recipient of the service has made the decision to purchase the good or obtain the service based on incorrect information or a misunderstanding, to fail to provide the correct information.

(b) It is also prohibited to carry out the acts specified in subsection (a) of this Article through another person in the name of a seller of goods or a provider of services.

53. Bait Advertising

(a) It is prohibited for a seller of goods or a provider of services to do any of the following in the sale, supply of goods, or provision of services:

(1) To advertise, knowing that the good cannot be sold or the service cannot be provided at the advertised price within the period specified in the advertisement;

(2) To advertise without reasonable grounds for believing that the good can be supplied in a reasonable quantity or the service can be provided in a reasonable manner at the advertised price within the period specified in the advertisement, having regard to the nature of the market and the nature of the advertisement.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, if the seller or provider of services has offered to sell the good or provide the service as advertised through another person, and the buyer or recipient of the service refuses, it shall not be deemed that a prohibited act under subsection (a) of this Article has been committed.

54. Gifts, Money, or Free Items

(a) It is prohibited for a seller of goods or a provider of services, in the sale or supply of goods or provision of services, to agree to give a gift, money, any free item, or any other such benefit, and then fail to provide it as agreed.

(b) If a seller of goods or a provider of services has sold a good or provided a service on the condition of giving a gift, money, a free item, or any other such benefit, they must act in accordance with that offer within a reasonable period.

(c) In the following situations, it shall not be deemed a contravention of subsection (b) of this Article:

(1) The gift, money, free item, or such benefit was not provided due to a cause beyond control.

(2) The gift, money, free item, or such benefit was not provided because, despite taking reasonable steps, the matter could not be achieved.

55. Taking Money

(a) A seller of goods or a provider of services shall not take money to sell a good or provide a service, knowing that the good cannot be sold or the service cannot be provided.

(b) A seller of goods or a provider of services shall not take money to sell a good or provide a service, knowing that they cannot supply a different good from the one being purchased or a different service from the one being accepted.

Chapter Nine
Unfair Terms

56. Scope of this Chapter

This Chapter shall apply to agreements, notices, documents, or any other communications that state the rights and responsibilities of buyers of goods or recipients of services, and sellers of goods or providers of services.

57. Deeming an Agreement, Notice, and Communication as Unfair

A term or clause contained in an agreement, notice, document, or any other communication specified in Article 56 of this Law shall be considered an unfair or unreasonable term or clause in the following situations:

(a) It is more beneficial to a party other than the buyer of the good or the recipient of the service;

(b) The clause included in the transaction or agreement for the sale of goods or obtaining of services causes more damage to the buyer or recipient of the service than is reasonably acceptable;

(c) The buyer or recipient of the service suffers damage based on incorrect information provided misleadingly in relation to a good or service.

58. No Obligation to Comply with an Unfair Term

Buyers of goods or recipients of services are not obliged to comply with unfair terms contained in agreements, notices, documents, or any other communications made between them and sellers of goods or providers of services.

59. Situations in which a Term may be Considered Unfair

(a) A term in an agreement, notice, document, or any other communication between buyers of goods or recipients of services and sellers of goods or providers of services shall be regarded as an unfair term if, contrary to the principle of good faith, it causes a significant imbalance in the rights and obligations between the parties, to the detriment of the buyer or recipient of the service, more than the seller or provider of the service.

(b) In determining whether a term is unfair, the following shall be considered:

(1) The type of good sold or service provided in the transaction;

(2) The surrounding circumstances when the agreement, notice, document, or communication was made;

(3) Other terms contained in the agreement, notice, document, or communication;

(4) The extent to which the buyer or recipient of the service has the option or power to demand a change to the term;

(5) Any other similar agreements previously made or transactions conducted between the parties;

(6) The extent to which the buyer or recipient of the service relied on the instructions, skill, or advice of the supplier or provider of the service when signing the agreement.

(c) If a court decides that an agreement, notice, document, communication, or any part thereof is unfair, the court has the power to order one of the following two actions:

(1) To declare the agreement, notice, document, communication, or any part thereof as unfair;

(2) If the court believes it is the most just course of action considering the circumstances at the time, to issue a further court order including the following:

i. To order the refund of money to the buyer or recipient of the service, or to re-supply the good;

ii. To award compensation for the damages suffered by the buyer or recipient of the service;

iii. To order the seller or provider of the service to rectify their arrangements to prevent the recurrence of such acts.

60. Burden of Proof

The responsibility of proving that terms in agreements, notices, documents, or communications for the sale or supply of goods or provision of services that limit or exclude liability, or that exclude rights and responsibilities, are fair terms lies with the seller or provider of the service.

61. Requiring a Response Regarding an Unfair Term

Even if a party involved in a submitted case has not raised any issue regarding an unfair term, the body hearing the case may require the seller or provider of the service to respond to terms that it deems to be unfair.

Chapter Ten
Business Conducted Through Electronic Means

62. Business or Services Conducted Through Electronic Means

This Law shall apply to goods sold and services provided through electronic means.

63. Principles to be Followed in Conducting Business or Providing Services Through Electronic Means

(a) In addition to the conditions specified in Chapter Two and Chapter Three of this Law that must be fulfilled by a good or service, at least the following information must be provided to the buyer or recipient of the service when selling goods or providing a service through electronic means:

(1) The name of the seller of the good or provider of the service;

(2) The business registration number of the seller of the good or provider of the service;

(3) If any additional fee or charge is levied on a good or service in addition to its specified price;

(4) If there is an opportunity to cancel or withdraw a submission after purchasing a good or applying for a service through electronic means, the period available for doing so;

(5) The procedure to be followed to return the items to the seller or provider of the service or to claim the rights provided to the buyer or recipient of the service under this Law if there is any problem with a sold good or a received service.

(b) Notwithstanding what is stated in subsection (a) of this Article, this Article shall not apply to the following types of transactions:

(1) Financial transactions conducted through electronic means by financial businesses licensed by the Maldives Monetary Authority;

(2) Services for selling bus, flight, or transport tickets;

(3) Goods purchased or services provided under a specific contract, even if done through electronic means;

(4) Other goods and services exempted in regulations made under this Law.

64. Making Regulations Regarding Business or Services Conducted Through Electronic Means

(a) The Ministry has the power to make regulations regarding business or services conducted through electronic means.

(b) Notwithstanding what is stated in subsection (a) of this Article, if the business or service is regulated and supervised by a specific authority, the power to make regulations concerning that business or service lies with the authority that regulates and supervises that business or service.

Chapter Eleven
Powers and Responsibilities of the Ministry

65. Price Control

(a) If the Ministry deems it necessary to control the price of a good sold in the Maldives or to control the quantity that can be sold, due to the availability of a certain type of good in the Maldives at that time, or the economic situation of the country at that time, the Ministry has the authority to control the quantity of that good that can be sold, to control the price of that good, and to vary the controlled price for different regions of the country, taking into account the cost of transporting the goods.

(b) If the Ministry responsible for a service provided in the Maldives deems it necessary to control the price of that service, due to its usefulness or the economic situation of the country at that time, that Ministry has the authority to control the price of that service and to vary the controlled price for different regions of the country, taking into account the cost of providing that service.

(c) It is prohibited to sell any good whose price is controlled under subsection (a) of this Article at a price higher than the control price, and to provide any service whose price is controlled under subsection (b) of this Article at a price higher than the control price.

66. Monitoring

In order to check whether sellers of goods or providers of services are acting in accordance with the matters specified in this Law, sellers of goods or providers of services may be monitored in accordance with a regulation established by the Ministry.

67. Power to Inspect and Examine

(a) Under Article 66 of this Law, for the purpose of monitoring sellers of goods or providers of services, a person appointed by the Ministry may, after giving at least 2 (two) days' notice, enter the premises where goods are sold or services are provided during reasonable hours of the day to inspect and check whether things are being conducted in accordance with this Law.

(b) If, after taking reasonable steps under subsection (a) of this Article, notice has not been given, or consent to enter the premises has not been given, or if there is obstruction, the Ministry may submit a case to the court to obtain a court order.

(c) A person appointed by the Ministry who enters a place where goods are sold or services are provided for inspection under subsection (a) of this Article has the power to do the following:

(1) To video and take photographs;

(2) To make a copy of any document or to order that a copy be made and provided;

(3) To order the removal of any good or document required for the investigation from that place;

(4) To obtain or order the provision of a document identifying the person providing information from that place.

(d) The Ministry shall issue a document to a person entering a business premise or a place where services are provided under subsection (a) of this Article, indicating that they are persons appointed by the Ministry.

68. Obtaining Documents or Information

Under Article 66 of this Law, for the purpose of monitoring sellers of goods or providers of services, the Ministry has the power to order the submission of a specific document or information or to provide a statement from a specific person.

69. Recalling Goods

(a) If the Minister believes that any good is such that it may cause harm to any person and that the seller or supplier of that good has not taken adequate steps to prevent such harm, the Ministry has the power, through a notice published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives, to act in one of the following ways with respect to that good:

(1) To order the recall of the good within a specified period;

(2) To order that the following information regarding the good be provided to the public or a specific section of the public within a specified period:

i. The defect contained in the good or the risks contained in the good.

ii. The circumstances in which a risk may arise from using the good.

iii. The procedures to be followed in disposing of the good.

(3) To announce that the seller or supplier of the good has agreed to act in one of the following ways regarding the good within a specified period:

i. To repair the good, if it is not a good that could pose any risk upon use.

ii. To replace the good.

iii. To refund the price of the good.

(b) The Ministry has the power to fine parties who contravene an order issued by the Ministry under subsection (a) of this Article in the manner specified in the regulations made under this Law.

(c) Parties who suffer loss due to a seller's contravention of an order issued by the Ministry under subsection (a) of this Article may submit a case to the relevant court to seek compensation for the loss from the contravening seller.

Chapter Twelve
Consumer Ombudsman

70. Appointment of the Consumer Ombudsman

(a) There shall be a Consumer Ombudsman appointed to investigate complaints filed under this Law.

(b) A person shall be appointed to the post of Consumer Ombudsman by the President of the Republic.

(c) The President of the Republic shall appoint a person to the post of Consumer Ombudsman within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Law.

(d) The Consumer Ombudsman appointed under this Article shall be accountable to the President of the Republic and the People's Majlis for matters arising in the performance of his duties and responsibilities and the results of investigations conducted.

(e) The Office of the Consumer Ombudsman shall be an office established within the Ministry. The resources and staff required for the Consumer Ombudsman to perform the responsibilities of the post shall be provided by the Ministry.

71. Responsibilities of the Consumer Ombudsman

The responsibilities of the Consumer Ombudsman are set out below:

(a) To establish a system for submitting cases filed for violation of this Law;

(b) To receive and investigate cases filed for violation of this Law;

(c) To decide on awarding compensation for damages in cases filed for violation of this Law;

(d) To take necessary measures against parties who have violated this Law;

(e) To publicly publish the decisions on cases filed for violation of this Law.

72. Qualifications for the Post of Consumer Ombudsman

A person appointed as the Consumer Ombudsman must meet the following qualifications:

(a) Be a citizen of the Maldives;

(b) Not have been convicted by a court of a crime for which a hadd is prescribed in Islam or a crime of breach of trust;

(c) Not be a person holding any state office by election or appointment;

(d) Not be a person holding a position in a political party or an employee of a political party;

(e) Not be a seller of goods or a provider of a service; and

(f) Be a person with the capability to perform the duties of the Consumer Ombudsman as specified in this Law, and who has obtained a first degree in the field of business or the field of selling goods or providing services, with relevant experience.

73. Term of the Consumer Ombudsman

A person shall be appointed as the Consumer Ombudsman for 1 (one) term of 5 (five) years.

74. Resignation from Office

Should the Consumer Ombudsman wish to resign from their post, they shall submit a letter stating this to the President of the Republic, and upon receipt of the letter by the President of the Republic, the Consumer Ombudsman is deemed to have vacated their post.

75. Removal from Office

The Consumer Ombudsman shall be removed from office by the President of the Republic if it is found that they have committed an act unbecoming of their office, or a situation has arisen that excuses them from the office, or they have become incapable of performing the duties of the office.

76. Vacation of Office

If any of the qualifications specified in Article 72 of this Law ceases to be met by the Consumer Ombudsman, that person shall be removed from the post of Consumer Ombudsman.

77. Salary and Allowances

The salary and allowances for the Consumer Ombudsman shall be determined by the President of the Republic upon the advice of the Minister of Finance.

78. Power to Inspect and Examine

(a) For the purpose of investigating a submitted case, the Consumer Ombudsman or a person appointed by him may, after giving at least 2 (two) days' notice, enter the premises where goods are sold or services are provided during reasonable hours of the day to inspect and check whether things are being conducted in accordance with this Law.

(b) If, after taking reasonable steps under subsection (a) of this Article, notice has not been given, or consent to enter the premises has not been given, or if there is obstruction, the Consumer Ombudsman may submit a case to the court to obtain a court order for that purpose.

(c) A person appointed by the Consumer Ombudsman who enters a place where goods are sold or services are provided for inspection under subsection (a) of this Article has the power to do the following:

(1) To video and take photographs;

(2) To make a copy of any document or to order that a copy be made and provided;

(3) To order the removal of any good or document required for the investigation from that place;

(4) To obtain or order the provision of a document identifying the person providing information from that place.

(d) The Consumer Ombudsman shall issue a document to a person entering a business premise or a place where services are provided under subsection (a) of this Article, indicating that they are persons appointed by the Consumer Ombudsman.

79. Obtaining Documents or Information

The Consumer Ombudsman has the power to order the submission of a specific document or information or to provide a statement from a specific person for the purpose of investigating a submitted case.

80. Period for Submitting a Case

Cases filed for violation of this Law must be submitted to the Consumer Ombudsman within 6 (six) months from the date the event occurred.

81. Submitting a Case to Court

If a person is dissatisfied with a measure taken or a decision made by the Consumer Ombudsman under this Chapter, that person has the right to submit the matter to a competent court of the Maldives.

Chapter Thirteen
Administrative Action

82. Penalties Determined by the Consumer Ombudsman

In cases submitted to the Consumer Ombudsman under this Law, the Consumer Ombudsman has the power to fine a person who has committed an act prohibited by this Law or a person who has violated this Law with the following amounts, or to take the following measures against that person:

(a) For the first offense, a fine between MVR 1,000 (one thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand), and to be given a period to rectify the matter;

(b) For each repeated offense, a fine between MVR 1,500 (one thousand five hundred) and MVR 250,000 (two hundred and fifty thousand), and to be given a period to rectify the matter;

(c) If the matter has not been rectified within the period given under subsection (b) of this Article, a fine between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 250,000 (two hundred and fifty thousand), and to close the premises for a period not exceeding 6 (six) months.

83. Power to Make Regulations on the Procedure for Taking Action

The Consumer Ombudsman has the power to make regulations on the procedure for the Consumer Ombudsman to follow when taking the measures specified in Article 82 of this Law.

84. Penalties Determined by the Ministry

In monitoring sellers of goods or providers of services under Article 66 of this Law, the Ministry has the power to fine a person who has committed an act prohibited by this Law or a person who has violated this Law with the following amounts, or to take the following measures against that person:

(a) For the first offense, a fine between MVR 1,000 (one thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand), and to be given a period to rectify the matter;

(b) For each repeated offense, a fine between MVR 1,500 (one thousand five hundred) and MVR 250,000 (two hundred and fifty thousand), and to be given a period to rectify the matter;

(c) If the matter has not been rectified within the period given under subsection (b) of this Article, a fine between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 250,000 (two hundred and fifty thousand), and to close the premises for a period not exceeding 6 (six) months.

85. Power to Make Regulations on the Procedure for Taking Action

The Ministry has the power to make regulations on the procedure for the Ministry to follow when taking the measures specified in Article 84 of this Law.

Chapter Fourteen
Miscellaneous

86. Exception

Business transactions conducted at auctions shall be exempted from this Law.

87. Making and Implementing Regulations

(a) Unless expressly stated otherwise in this Law, the regulations required to be made under this Law shall be made and implemented by the Ministry.

(b) Under Chapter Twelve of this Law, the regulations required to be made regarding the performance of the responsibilities of the Consumer Ombudsman shall be made by the Office of the Consumer Ombudsman.

(c) The regulations required to be made under this Law shall be made and publicized within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Law.

88. Commencement of the Law

This Law shall come into force on the date of completion of 6 (six) months from the date of its passing, ratification, and publication in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

89. Repealed Law

Upon the commencement of this Law, Law No. 1/96 (Law on the Protection of Buyers of Goods and Recipients of Services) is repealed.

90. Definitions

In this Law, unless the context otherwise requires, the following expressions and words shall have the meanings given below:

(a) "Goods" means tangible or intangible items sold for personal use. This includes items prepared in a digital form, such as software.

(b) "Supply" means to make a good or service available to the market through a sale, exchange, lease, or on credit.

(c) "Service" means services provided, including the maintenance, operation, repair, or replacement of a good or place.

(d) "Reconditioned good" means a purchased good that, upon being returned, is cleaned, undergoes extensive testing, and is then repackaged and offered for sale.

(e) "Business or service conducted through electronic means" means a business or service conducted through an electronic, magnetic, optical, or other similar means, including a transaction using a data message.

(f) "Ministry" means the government ministry designated to implement economic policies.

(g) "Minister" means the minister of the government ministry designated to implement economic policies.

(h) "Court" means, in Mal, the Civil Court referred to in Article 53(b)(1) of Law No. 22/2010 (The Judicature Act of the Maldives). Or, in any other island of the Maldives, the Magistrate Courts referred to in Chapter Four of that Law, in accordance with their jurisdiction.

(i) "Direct marketing" means advertising conducted in relation to a good being sold or a service being provided directly to a buyer of goods or a recipient of a service through a document, by post, by telephone, or through a digital means such as the internet.
