Law of the Islamic University of Maldives

Chapter One
Introduction

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This is the law that establishes a university under the name "Islamic University of Maldives," defining its objectives, responsibilities, and powers, and outlining the related procedures.

(b) This law shall be cited as the "Law of the Islamic University of Maldives."

Objectives

    The objectives to be achieved by this law are stated below.

(a) To establish a special university in the Maldives to provide Islamic higher education and to determine the procedures and principles for its operation.

(b) Within the framework of religious and national unity, to protect and sustain the Islamic education and culture of the Maldives, and to produce educated, trained, civilized, responsible, and unified Maldivian children for the development and awareness of the nation.

(c) To work in accordance with the spirit of Islamic ideology for the development and advancement of individuals and the nation.

(d) To seek ways to advance and develop in various fields of Islamic science and disciplines.

(e) To strive to make the students graduating from the university a creative, capable, and professional group who will build the nation and the Muslim Ummah.

Chapter Two
The Islamic University of Maldives

Establishment of the University

3.
(a) With the commencement of this law, a university by the name of the Islamic University of Maldives is hereby established.

(b) "Kulliyyah al-Dirasat al-Islamiyyah," which was operating under the Ministry of Education before the commencement of this law, is hereby transformed into the Islamic University of Maldives.

(c) The university shall be called the "Islamic University of Maldives" in English and "جامعة المالديف الإسلامية" in Arabic.

Legal Status

4.
(a) The Islamic University of Maldives is a university of the Maldivian state.

(b) The university is an independent legal entity with its own seal, having the right to sue and be sued in its own name, to acquire and hold movable and immovable property as permitted by law, to acquire property in perpetuity, and to conduct transactions in its own name.

(c) The seal of the university shall be protected, maintained, and used in accordance with the rules established by the University Council.

(d) The President of the University Council shall be answerable to the People's Majlis in matters concerning the university.

Compliance with Government Policies

    The university shall carry out all its responsibilities and exercise its powers in accordance with the main policies determined by the National Council for Higher Education or the Minister.

Responsibilities of the University

    The responsibilities of the university are as follows:

(a) To increase and expand knowledge and skills in general, and Islamic knowledge, learning, and culture in particular.

(b) To provide higher education and training in all areas of general knowledge and skills and Islamic education required by the Maldives.

(c) To conduct academic research and to publish such research for the benefit of the national and international community.

(d) To award Bachelor's, Master's, and Doctoral degrees, and other certificates and awards in connection with the courses, training, and education provided by the university.

(e) To establish collaborative relationships with educational institutions within and outside the Maldives.

(f) To develop the university's resources and acquire additional resources to achieve the university's objectives.

(g) To use all the university's resources among its centers in a fair and optimal manner.

(h) To promote and disseminate Islamic and Maldivian history, traditions, and literature.

(i) To do everything necessary to achieve the above-mentioned objectives in a manner that does not conflict with Islamic Sharia and the laws of the Maldives.

Powers of the University

    The university is granted the following powers under this law:

(a) The power and authority to do all things necessary to achieve the university's objectives, in a manner not conflicting with Islamic Sharia and the laws of the Maldives.

(b) The powers in subsection (a) of this section include, but are not limited to, the following:

(1) To acquire property by purchase, lease, or otherwise, and to dispose of property by sale, lease, or otherwise.

(2) To develop, on a commercial basis, academic and scientific discoveries, research, and new inventions, and to compile, translate, publish, and commercially develop books and research in various fields of Islamic culture and knowledge.

(3) To charge a price or consideration for work done, services rendered, information provided, and goods supplied by the university to other parties.

(4) To establish companies and to participate in the establishment of companies with other parties in a manner that facilitates the achievement of the university's objectives.

(5) To subscribe to and purchase securities.

(6) To form academic partnerships.

(7) To participate in joint ventures, businesses, and other profitable activities that contribute to achieving the university's objectives.

(8) To enter into contracts.

(9) To construct buildings.

(10) To use and control the property, land, and buildings included in the university's assets.

(11) To employ and dismiss staff required by the university.

(12) To conduct and cease business with the university's funds.

(13) To conduct academic and scientific research.

(14) To provide financial assistance and loans to students.

(15) To award scholarships and fellowships.

(16) To seek research grants and to award such grants to eligible parties.

(17) To accept gifts, donations, and bequests.

(18) To manage property endowed to the university.

(19) To do other things authorized by this law or any other law.

(20) To do things necessary in connection with the powers vested in the university.

(c) Property received by the university as a waqf or trust under this law shall be dealt with in accordance with the powers and established principles vested in the university as the administrator of such waqf or trust.

(d) The powers vested in the university may be exercised in a foreign country in accordance with the laws of that country.

Composition of the University

    The university is composed of the following:

(a) The University Council.

(b) The Academic Board.

(c) Colleges, faculties, centers, schools, departments, divisions, institutes, and units established by the University Council for the administrative and academic management of the university.

(d) Technical, administrative, and other staff of the university as determined by the University Council.

(e) Past and present students as determined by the University Council.

Senior Officers of the University

9.
(a) The senior officers of the university shall be the following:
(1) The Chancellor of the University.
(2) The Vice-Chancellor of the University.
(3) The Deputy Vice-Chancellors of the University.

Chancellor

10.
(a) The Chancellor of the university shall be appointed and dismissed by the President of the Republic.

(b) The term of office of the Chancellor is 5 (five) years. However, this section does not prevent the President of the Republic from dismissing him from office during this term if he deems it necessary.

(c) The responsibility of the Chancellor is to perform the duties required as the President of the University Council.

Vice-Chancellor

11.
(a) The Vice-Chancellor of the university shall be appointed and dismissed by the President of the Republic.

(b) The term of office of the Vice-Chancellor is 5 (five) years. However, this section does not prevent the President of the Republic from dismissing him from office during this term if he deems it necessary.

(c) The Vice-Chancellor is the most senior official who manages the academic, scholarly, and administrative affairs of the university in accordance with the principles determined by the University Council. The responsibilities of the Vice-Chancellor are as follows:
(1) To manage and supervise all affairs of the university in accordance with the principles laid down by the University Council, to improve the academic and scholarly standards of the university, and to develop the university.
(2) To manage the work of preparing the university's development projects and budget.
(3) To make arrangements for information about the university to be available to students, staff, and other parties in accordance with the principles laid down by the University Council.
(4) To make arrangements for the most beneficial use of the university's staff, funds, property, buildings, and other assets in accordance with the principles laid down by the University Council.
(5) To appoint and dismiss staff, train staff, assign staff to various tasks, and promote staff as decided by the University Council.

Deputy Vice-Chancellors

12.
(a) Deputy Vice-Chancellors shall be appointed and dismissed by the University Council.

(b) The term and responsibilities of the Deputy Vice-Chancellors shall be determined by the University Council.

Staff Structure

    The University Council shall establish an administrative structure that outlines the job classifications and responsibilities of the university's lecturers and administrative staff. This structure shall specify the qualifications for university positions and the required number of staff.

Staff Salaries

    The salaries of the university staff shall be determined by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury upon the advice of the University Council and the Minister.

Chapter Three
The University Council

The University Council

    The University Council is the supreme governing body of the university.

Responsibilities of the University Council

    The responsibilities of the University Council shall be carried out in accordance with the main policies determined by the National Council for Higher Education or the Minister. The responsibilities of the University Council are stated below:
    (a) To plan, design, and formulate policies for the affairs of the university in order to achieve its objectives.
    (b) To conduct various courses and award certificates, diplomas, and degrees.
    (c) To appoint and dismiss university staff.
    (d) To establish branches of the university within the university or in other areas.
    (e) To plan and manage the university's budget.
    (f) To make and implement regulations necessary to achieve the university's objectives.
    (g) To determine fees, charges, and fines, and to provide financial assistance and loans to students.
    (h) To develop the university's inventions, creations, and discoveries for commercial purposes.
    (i) To establish committees and boards to plan, manage, and research the affairs of the university.
    (j) To establish and develop relations with educational institutions in the Maldives and abroad.
    (k) To promote and develop staff in accordance with the university's regulations.
    (l) To establish principles for conducting business transactions permitted by Sharia that facilitate the achievement of the university's objectives.
    (m) To determine the following:
    (1) University entrance examinations.
    (2) Selection and admission of students to the university.
    (3) Designing educational programs.
    (4) Planning and developing the curriculum.
    (5) Conducting examinations and awarding certificates.
    (6) Maintaining the information system.
    (7) Managing the university's physical resources and financial affairs.
    (8) Establishing, developing, and maintaining university libraries.
    (n) And to do other things necessary to achieve the university's objectives.

Powers of the University Council

17.
(a) The University Council has the power to do the following in accordance with this law and in accordance with the main policies determined by the National Council for Higher Education or the Minister:
(1) To manage and control the university.
(2) To appoint and dismiss university staff or other persons to senior positions in the university.
(3) To establish and abolish colleges, faculties, centers, schools, departments, divisions, institutes, and units for the achievement of administrative and academic objectives.
(4) To manage and control the financial affairs of the university.
(b) In all matters relating to the university, the University Council shall act in a manner that it deems to be in the best interest of the university.

Delegation of Powers of the University Council

18.
(a) Except for the matters specified in subsection (b) of this section, other matters may be delegated to a member of the University Council or a university staff member. However, the University Council is the responsible party in matters so delegated.
(b) The following matters shall not be delegated by the University Council to another party:
(1) Appointment of Deputy Vice-Chancellors.
(2) Approval of the university's strategic plan and budget.
(3) Disposal of the university's immovable property in any form.
(4) Management of business transactions of the university or a body controlled by the university that may cause significant loss or adverse effect to the university's finances and operations.
(5) Reviewing the management of the university.
(6) Approving the university's annual report.
(c) A power delegated to another party under this section may be revoked by the University Council.

Members of the University Council

    The University Council shall consist of the following persons:
    (a) 2 (two) members by virtue of their office.
    (b) 8 (eight) members appointed by the minister responsible for higher education affairs from a list of at least 16 (sixteen) persons proposed by the University Council.
    (c) 8 (eight) elected members.
    (d) One person appointed by the University Council for a term determined by the Council, if the Council deems it necessary.

Members by Virtue of Office

    The following members appointed by the President of the Republic by virtue of their office shall be included in the University Council:
    (a) The Chancellor of the University.
    (b) The Vice-Chancellor of the University.

Elected Members

    The following members are elected to the University Council:
    (a) One person elected from among the Deputy Vice-Chancellors.
    (b) 1 (one) member elected by the Academic Board of the university.
    (c) 2 (two) persons elected from among the deans of the faculties and the heads of the centers.
    (d) One person elected from among the other teaching staff, excluding the persons mentioned in Article 19 of this law, Deputy Vice-Chancellors, and heads of colleges, faculties, centers, and similar bodies.
    (e) One person elected from among the administrative staff of the university.
    (f) One person elected from among the university's alumni.
    (g) One person elected from among the students not involved in the administrative or teaching work of the university.

Qualifications of Members of the University Council

    Members appointed to the University Council must meet the following qualifications:
    (a) Be at least 18 (eighteen) years of age.
    (b) Not be a person convicted by a court of a crime for which a hadd is prescribed in Islamic law.
    (c) Not be a person serving a sentence for a criminal offense, and at least 5 (five) years have passed since the completion of such a sentence.
    (d) Be a Muslim and a follower of the Sunni tradition.
    (e) Be of sound mind.
    (f) Possess the academic standard, competence, and work ethic to perform the responsibilities and duties of a member of the University Council.
    (g) Not hold a position in a political party.
    (h) Not be a person who has been declared bankrupt.

Term of Office of Appointed Members of the University Council

    The term of the Council members shall be as follows:
    (a) Members of the University Council by virtue of their office shall remain members of the University Council as long as they hold those offices.
    (b) The 8 (eight) members appointed by the minister responsible for higher education affairs shall remain in office for a term determined at the time of appointment, not exceeding 4 (four) years.
    (c) The term of office of members elected to the University Council under this law, except for the student not involved in the administrative or teaching work of the university, shall be 2 (two) years.
    (d) The term of the member elected from among the students not involved in the administrative or teaching work of the university shall be 1 (one) year.

Method of Electing Members

24.
(a) The rules for holding the election to elect the members of the University Council mentioned in Article 20 of this law shall be determined by the University Council.
(b) When an election is to be held, the University Council shall appoint an Elections Officer to carry out the work.
(c) The Elections Officer shall conduct the election in accordance with the rules determined by the University Council.

Nomination Committee of the Council

    The list referred to in subsection (b) of Article 18 of this law shall be compiled by the Nomination Committee of the University Council. That committee shall consist of the following members:
    (a) Chancellor.
    (b) Vice-Chancellor.
    (c) 6 (six) members appointed by the Chancellor in accordance with a procedure determined by the University Council.

How the Nomination Committee Compiles the List of Names

26.
(a) The nomination list submitted for the appointment of the members referred to in subsection (b) of Article 18 of this law shall include the names of at least 16 (sixteen) persons.
(b) When the Nomination Committee compiles the nomination list, it shall include persons with various professional skills.
(c) The nomination list compiled by the Nomination Committee shall not include the name of any of the following persons:
(1) A member of the People's Majlis.
(2) A permanent employee of the university.
(3) A student of the university.
(4) A member of the Nomination Committee.

Appointment of Members from the Nomination Committee's List

    Within 15 (fifteen) days of receiving the nomination list of the Nomination Committee, the minister responsible for higher education affairs shall appoint 8 (eight) members from among the members on that list who, in the minister's opinion, are best suited to advance the interests of the university.

Persons Entitled to Vote

28.
(a) In electing a member to the University Council from among the Deputy Vice-Chancellors, only the Deputy Vice-Chancellors shall be entitled to vote.
(b) In electing a member to the University Council from the Academic Board, only the members of the Academic Board shall be entitled to vote.
(c) In electing a member to the University Council from among the Deans, only the permanent heads of the colleges, faculties, or centers shall be entitled to vote.
(d) In electing a member to the University Council from among the teaching staff, only permanent employees who have spent the past year in teaching at the university and are still engaged in teaching at the time of the election shall be entitled to vote when the names of the candidates for that election are submitted.
(e) In electing a member to the University Council from among the administrative staff, only permanent employees who have spent the past year in the administrative section of the university and are still engaged in administrative work at the time of the election shall be entitled to vote when the names of the candidates for that election are submitted.
(f) In electing a member to the University Council from among the alumni, only members of the Alumni Association shall be entitled to vote.
(g) In electing a member to the University Council from among the students, only students registered in long-term courses determined by the University Council shall be entitled to vote.

Academic Board

29.
(a) An Academic Board shall be established under a regulation of the University Council as the supreme committee to consult, direct, and oversee the academic and scholarly affairs of the university.
(b) The Board shall be composed of the following persons:
(1) The Vice-Chancellor.
(2) Deans of the faculties and heads of other centers under the university appointed by virtue of their office.
(3) Members elected by the university.
(4) Members appointed for their knowledge and experience to contribute to the discussions.
(c) To ensure that the Board's responsibilities are carried out effectively, the manner of appointing or electing the members of the Board, their term of office, and the manner of holding meetings shall be determined by a regulation passed by the University Council.
(d) The responsibilities of the Board are as follows:
(1) To develop academic affairs, admit students, conduct examinations, conduct academic research, award certificates, maintain university discipline, and submit proposals to the Council on matters necessary to achieve the university's objectives.
(2) To report to the University Council on the work assigned to the Board by a regulation of the University Council and on special matters sent by the University Council.
(e) The Board has the power necessary to carry out its responsibilities. However, the following matters shall be decided by the University Council:
(1) To establish a collaborative relationship with an academic institution.
(2) To establish or abolish a college, faculty, or similar body.

President of the University Council

    The President of the University Council is the Chancellor. The responsibilities of the President of the University Council are as follows:
    (a) To determine the agenda of the University Council meetings and to preside over them.
    (b) To submit the decisions of the University Council to the relevant authorities.
    (c) To uphold the rules of the University Council meetings.
    (d) To be accountable to the ministry responsible for higher education affairs in matters concerning the university.

Vice-President of the University Council

    The Vice-President of the Council is the Vice-Chancellor. The responsibilities of the Vice-President of the Council are as follows:
    (a) To perform the duties of the President of the University Council in his absence.
    (b) To submit the university's budget, administrative matters, and teaching plans to the University Council with the consultation of the President of the University Council.
    (c) To manage the administrative and academic affairs of the university in accordance with the decisions of the Council.

Responsibilities of the Members of the University Council

    The responsibilities of the members of the University Council are as follows:
    (a) To attend the meetings of the University Council and the committees of the Council of which the member is a part.
    (b) To present the member's skills and experience diligently and honestly to assist in the work of the University Council.
    (c) To act to advance the interests of the university, taking into account the work of the university.
    (d) Not to use the position to obtain a personal benefit or to obtain a benefit for another person, or to cause harm to the university or another person.
    (e) To protect information obtained by virtue of the position and not to use such information for personal gain or for the benefit of another person, or to cause harm to the university or another person.
    (f) If a member has a personal interest in a matter being discussed in the Council, to inform the presidency of the University Council of the matter and not to attend such a meeting. And not to participate in voting even if attending at the request of the presidency.
    (g) In matters to be decided regarding business, to decide matters for the benefit of the university with honesty, without personal gain in the decisions made, and in the light of all the information required for the decision.
    (h) To carry out the matters entrusted to a member of the University Council in good faith and with good judgment, both individually and collectively, and to perform the duties and responsibilities of the Council.

Secretary of the University Council

    The Secretary of the University Council is a university employee appointed by the University Council, who is not a member of the University Council, to carry out all the day-to-day administrative matters of the University Council. The responsibilities of the Secretary of the Council are stated below:
    (a) To write, protect, and maintain the minutes and decisions of the University Council meetings and the Council's committees.
    (b) To make the necessary notifications to various parties in connection with the decisions of the University Council.
    (c) To do the things instructed by the University Council in connection with the affairs of the Council.

Vacancy of a Member's Seat

    The seat of a member of the University Council shall become vacant if one of the following reasons occurs:
    (a) Failure to attend 3 (three) consecutive Council meetings without a valid excuse, despite being summoned to the meeting.
    (b) Loss of a qualification required by this law for a member of the University Council.
    (c) Appointment or election to a position that disqualifies a person from being a member of the University Council.
    (d) A resolution passed by a two-thirds majority of the Council that the member is not performing the duties required of a member of the University Council.
    (e) A resolution passed by a two-thirds majority of the University Council that the member is incapable of performing the duties required of a member of the University Council.
    (f) It is proved to the University Council that an act has been committed that compromises academic integrity.

Resignation

35.
(a) If the Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor mentioned in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) of Article 9 of this law wish to resign, they shall submit the matter in writing to the President of the Republic, and upon receipt of the letter by the President of the Republic, that person is removed from that position.
(b) If a member from among the members mentioned in subsections (b), (c), and (d) of Article 18 of this law wishes to resign, he shall submit the matter in writing to the Chancellor of the university, and upon receipt of the letter by the Chancellor, that member is removed from that position.

Appointment and Election of Members to Vacant Seats

    If the seat of a member appointed or elected to the University Council becomes vacant, a member shall be appointed or elected to that seat by the body that appoints or elects that member upon notification from that body.

Meetings

37.
(a) A meeting of the University Council can be held when more than half of the total members of the Council are present.
(b) A matter shall be deemed to have been decided by the University Council when it is passed by a majority of the members present at the meeting at which the matter is decided.
(c) The Chancellor of the university shall preside over the meetings of the University Council. If the Chancellor is unable to attend, the Vice-Chancellor shall preside. If both the Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor are unable to attend, a person elected by the members present at that meeting from among themselves shall preside.

Temporary Appointment of Persons to the Positions of Vice-Chancellor or Deputy Vice-Chancellor

38.
(a) The University Council has the power to appoint a person to temporarily perform the duties of the position of Vice-Chancellor and Deputy Vice-Chancellor in the following circumstances:
(1) The position of Vice-Chancellor or Deputy Vice-Chancellor becomes vacant.
(2) The person holding the position of Vice-Chancellor or Deputy Vice-Chancellor is out of the country or is otherwise unable to perform the duties of the position for any other reason.
(b) A person appointed temporarily shall not be kept in the position for a period longer than 6 (six) months.

Chapter Four
Transitional Matters

Interim or Transitional Council of the University

39.
(a) Upon the commencement of this law, the Kulliyyah Council that existed in the Kulliyyah shall become the Transitional Council of the university.
(b) Until a person is appointed by the President of the Republic to the position of Chancellor of the university, the interim Chancellor of the university shall be the person who held the position of President of the Kulliyyah Council in the Kulliyyah.
(c) Until a person is appointed by the President of the Republic to the position of Vice-Chancellor of the university, the interim Vice-Chancellor of the university shall be the person who held the position of Rector Emeritus of the Kulliyyah.
(d) Until persons are appointed by the President of the Republic to the positions of Deputy Vice-Chancellors of the university, persons shall be appointed to the interim positions of Deputy Vice-Chancellors by the interim Vice-Chancellor of the university with the approval of the Transitional Council of the university.
(e) Within 3 (three) months of the commencement of this law, the University Council shall be constituted in accordance with Article 8 of this law and the interim Council shall be dissolved.

Staff and Students of the Kulliyyah

40.
(a) The staff and students of the Kulliyyah that was in operation before the commencement of this law are, upon the establishment of the Islamic University of Maldives under Article 3 of this law, hereby appointed as the staff and students of that university.
(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in subsection (a) of this section, an employee who loses his position as a result of the commencement of this law shall be offered a position from among the vacant positions in the university.

Transfer of Kulliyyah's Policies

41.
(a) Upon the commencement of this law, the policies, regulations, and instructions passed by the Kulliyyah Council and the committees established by it shall, if they do not conflict with this law, have legal status as the policies, regulations, and instructions of the university until a change is made by the University Council.
(b) The policies and regulations referred to in subsection (a) of this section shall not include the operating regulations and the basic regulations of the Kulliyyah.

Transfer of Kulliyyah's Assets, Revenue, and Debts

    Upon the commencement of this law, the assets, revenue, and debts of the Kulliyyah shall be transferred to the assets, revenue, and debts of the university.

Land and Buildings of the Kulliyyah

    Upon the commencement of this law, the land and buildings registered in the name of the Kulliyyah or released by the government for its use shall become the state land and buildings belonging to the university.

Unfinished Matters

    Upon the commencement of this law, if any matter or transaction in which the Kulliyyah was involved is unfinished, the university shall become a party to that matter or transaction in place of this institution. And all the powers and rights vested in the Kulliyyah in that matter shall be vested in the university.

Chapter Five
Other Matters

Valid Decisions

45.
(a) The valid decisions of the university shall be considered to be the following written decisions made in a manner not contrary to this law.
(b) Decisions of the University Council.
(c) A decision made by such a person or committee shall not be invalid due to the invalidity of the appointment of the Chancellor or Vice-Chancellor, the presence of a person elected to a committee in violation of the rules, the unconstitutional formation of a committee, or the failure to elect a member who should have been elected to the University Council, the Academic Board, or a committee.
(d) Decisions of the committees established by the University Council.
(e) Decisions of the Chancellor or Vice-Chancellor.

Entering into Contracts

    If the university enters into a contract with a private party, a private company, or any other party, that contract must be in writing in accordance with Sharia and legal principles and bear the seal of the university.

Financial Year

    The financial year of the university is the 12 (twelve) months from 1 January to 31 December.

University Finances

48.
(a) The funds required for the university to fully perform its responsibilities shall be released to the university from the state treasury every year.
(b) Any aid given to the university by any person, association, or government shall be accepted only with the permission of the University Council and only for the purpose of carrying out the matters within the objectives of the university.
(c) The university may raise income in various ways to carry out the matters within the objectives of the university. In this way, in order to be economical and to reduce reliance on funds provided by the state treasury, the university shall work every year to increase the income-generating activities conducted by the university and to increase the income received.
(d) No employee of the university shall use any resource of the university for personal gain. And it is not a matter permitted by this law for any employee of the university to conduct any activity in the name of the university for personal gain or benefit.
(e) The university has the right to spend the money received by the university in the following ways, in accordance with a procedure determined by the University Council. This money shall be spent only for the purposes of the university.
(1) Fees and money collected from students and staff in various ways; and
(2) Money received from transactions conducted under this law to generate income for the university.

Obtaining Money as a Loan

49.
(a) The university may obtain money as a loan only with the permission of the University Council and in accordance with the rules determined by the ministry that manages the financial affairs of the government. And loans may be taken in this way only in a manner permitted by Islamic Sharia.
(b) No immovable property of the university shall be mortgaged.

Fees

50.
(a) A fee for a course conducted by the university or for a service provided by the university shall be charged in accordance with the rules determined by the University Council.
(b) The fees determined under subsection (a) of this section shall be made public.

Expenditure from Finances

    Expenditure from the university's finances may be made only for the purpose of carrying out the matters necessary to achieve the objectives of the university, in accordance with the rules determined by the University Council.

Exemption from Paying Tax

    Any property specifically designated for achieving the objectives of the university is exempt from taxation. And any aid given to the university by any party in the form of free aid, charity, and waqf is also exempt from taxation.

Auditing

    The accounts of the university's income, expenditure, assets, and financial liabilities shall be written and maintained in accordance with the regulations made by the University Council with the advice of the Auditor General, and after auditing, a financial statement prepared shall be sent to the President of the Republic, the People's Majlis, and the Minister along with the annual report mentioned in Article 47 of this law.

Annual Report

54.
(a) An annual report prepared on the activities of the university shall be sent by the University Council to the President of the Republic, the People's Majlis, and the minister responsible for higher education affairs before the 1st (first) day of April of each year.
(b) The annual report referred to in subsection (a) of this section shall include the following matters that occurred during the period of the report:
(1) A brief summary of the important activities indicating the status of the university.
(2) The members of the University Council and the committees established by the Council, their attendance, and the important matters decided.
(3) Activities conducted to improve the quality of teaching and learning.
(4) Summary statistics on the university's courses, staff, and students.
(5) Other information that the Council decides to include in the report.
(c) The report referred to in subsection (a) of this section shall be published to the public by the University Council within 14 (fourteen) days of sending it to the President of the Republic, the People's Majlis, and the Minister.

Making Regulations

55.
(a) The University Council has the power to make regulations in a manner not conflicting with any other law in order to implement the articles of this law or to make the most appropriate use of this law.
(b) The power vested in the University Council by subsection (a) of this section includes, but is not limited to, making regulations for the following matters and other matters:
(1) To manage the university in a sound manner and to maintain the discipline of the university.
(2) To determine the administrative punishments to be given by the university or by a person appointed by the university to the students and staff of the university if a regulation made under paragraph (1) of this subsection is violated.
(3) To determine the manner of holding the elections mentioned in this law and the manner of dealing with complaints submitted in connection with the elections.
(4) To determine the technical staff of the university.
(5) To determine the following matters of the various councils of the university:
(a) The manner of holding, canceling, and postponing meetings and the times of holding meetings.
(b) The manner of voting in meetings.
(c) The procedures for disclosing financial matters at convocation meetings.
(d) The manner of appointing persons to the presidency and their powers and responsibilities.
(e) The manner of conducting meetings and maintaining the records of meetings.
(f) The manner of establishing various committees.
(g) The quorum of the meetings of the committees and the powers and responsibilities vested in those committees.
(h) The manner of holding, canceling, and postponing meetings and the times of holding meetings.
(6) To determine the manner of dismissing high-level employees not mentioned in this law.
(7) To determine the ways in which the Deputy Vice-Chancellor will assume and exercise the responsibilities and powers of the Vice-Chancellor in special circumstances.
(8) If the term of office of an employee running an office or a place established under this law or this law is not specified in this law, or if the opportunity to determine the term by a regulation is not given in this law, to determine the term of such a position or job and the manner of giving that job.
(9) To determine all matters related to the employment of the university's staff.
(10) To appoint persons to responsible positions in the university and to determine the term, qualifications, and manner of dismissal from those positions.
(11) To determine the manner of admitting students to the university.
(12) To determine the manner, time, and place of holding lectures, classes, and examinations, and their numbers and forms.
(13) To determine matters for the development and expansion of university teaching.
(14) To award certificates and honors of various levels.
(15) To award fellowships, scholarships, and financial aid.
(16) To award credit points for a prior study or other work by assessing the academic weight of that work in place of a course required to obtain a certificate.
(17) To admit members to the convocation.
(18) To admit persons studying or who have studied at another educational institution to a university level consistent with their studies, or to grant exemptions to the extent accepted by the university to persons who have completed a course or part of a course at another college or university wishing to enter the university.
(19) To determine the various fees to be paid by students to the university.
(20) To establish and operate libraries, laboratories, and museums in conjunction with the university.
(21) To build hostels or to participate in hostels run by another party.
(22) To be part of academic or scholarly institutions or for the university to participate in such a place.
(23) To control and invest the university's assets.
(c) In addition to the matters stated above, the University Council may make regulations regarding other matters related to the regulations passed by the University Council.
(d) The regulations mentioned in this section shall be made within 3 (three) months of the commencement of this law and shall be published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

Commencement of the Law

    This law shall commence on the date on which the amendments to this law are passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

Transitional Matters

57.
(a) Within a maximum of 7 (seven) days of the commencement of the 2nd Amendment to Law No. 11/2015 (Law of the Islamic University of Maldives), the President of the Republic shall appoint the first Chancellor of the university and the Vice-Chancellor of the university under Articles 10 and 11 of this law.
(b) Within a maximum of 30 (thirty) days of the commencement of the 2nd Amendment to Law No. 11/2015 (Law of the Islamic University of Maldives), after appointing members to the first University Council to be constituted under this law and electing the members who need to be elected, that Council shall be reconstituted.
(c) The work of organizing and arranging the reconstitution of the University Council as stated in subsection (b) of this section shall be carried out by an interim committee appointed for that purpose by the Chancellor of the university.
(d) The committee referred to in subsection (c) of this section shall consist of the Chancellor and 4 (four) members appointed by the Chancellor from among the persons filling the positions of the university.
(e) With the reconstitution of the University Council as stated in subsection (b) of this section, the committee referred to in subsection (c) of this section is dissolved.
(f) Until the reconstitution of the University Council under subsection (b) of this section, the University Council that existed before the commencement of the 2nd Amendment to Law No. 11/2015 (Law of the Islamic University of Maldives) shall continue to exist.

Definitions

    Unless otherwise stated in this law, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given below to those words and phrases.
    (a) "Council" means the University Council established to manage the Islamic University of Maldives.
    (b) "Minister" means the minister of the government ministry to which the responsibility for implementing policies related to higher education in the Maldives is assigned at that time.
    (c) "Vice-Chancellor" means the most senior person appointed to manage the university on a day-to-day basis.
    (d) "Securities" means a document designed in a manner permitted by Sharia, issued as an investment for the person holding it or for a registered party, for use on a securities exchange, market, or in a generally accepted sphere for that purpose, excluding a bill of exchange.
    (e) "University" means the Islamic University of Maldives.
    (f) "Kulliyyah" means all campuses, faculties, centers, offices, and similar places belonging to Kulliyyah al-Dirasat al-Islamiyyah.
    (g) "Chancellor" means the Chancellor of the Islamic University of Maldives.
    (h) "Academic Board" means the board established under Article 22 of this law.
    (i) "National Council for Higher Education" means the council established by the President of the Republic to determine and coordinate all policies related to higher education.
