Maldives Civil Aviation Authority Act

Chapter One
Preliminary Provisions

Introduction and Name
1.
(a) This is the Act that establishes a separate national body named the "Maldives Civil Aviation Authority" to formulate the civil aviation policies of the Maldives, to establish all regulations, principles, and standards related to civil aviation, and to plan, manage, and oversee these matters, and to specify the powers and responsibilities of that authority.
(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Maldives Civil Aviation Authority Act".

Purposes
2.
The main purposes to be achieved by this Act are set out below.
(a) To manage and oversee all matters of civil aviation in the Maldives in a safe and secure manner under a robust system;
(b) To establish a separate authority by the name of "Maldives Civil Aviation Authority" and to determine the principles by which that authority shall be managed;
(c) To facilitate the conduct of civil aviation matters in the Maldives in a manner consistent with the principles of civil aviation treaties, without prejudice to the independence and sovereignty of the Maldives, within the legal framework of the Maldives.

Chapter Two
Establishment of the Authority

Establishment of the Maldives Civil Aviation Authority
3.
(a) The Maldives Civil Aviation Authority is established upon the commencement of this Act. The Maldives Civil Aviation Authority is a state institution that has the right to sue and be sued in its own name, to acquire and own property, to be responsible for debts, to dispose of such property, and to establish the methods and principles for the robust planning and management of all matters related to civil aviation in the Maldives, and to carry out all necessary actions for the enforcement of this Act.
(b) The Maldives Civil Aviation Authority is an institution not included in the Maldives Civil Service.
(c) The Maldives Civil Aviation Authority shall function under the supervision of a Minister designated for that purpose by the President of the Republic.
(d) Upon the establishment of the Maldives Civil Aviation Authority as per subsection (a) of this section, all property, resources, funds allocated to the Civil Aviation Department of the Ministry of Transport and Communication from the state budget and approved by the People's Majlis, all duties and responsibilities legally borne or under agreements by the Civil Aviation Department, and all rights and benefits legally accrued or under agreements to the Civil Aviation Department, which were in use by the Civil Aviation Department of the Ministry of Transport and Communication prior to the commencement of this Act, are transferred to the Authority.

Seal
4.
The Authority shall have an official seal. If the Authority signs an agreement that the law requires to be in writing, the Authority's seal shall be affixed to that agreement and to every document that the law states must have a seal. Every document to which the Authority's seal is affixed must be signed by 2 (two) directors authorized by the Authority.

Chapter Three
Responsibilities and Powers of the Authority

Responsibilities of the Authority
5.
The responsibilities of the Authority are set out below.
(a) To carry out matters of civil aviation as stated to be done by the Authority by this Act or any other Act;
(b) To carry out the functions required of the Ministry under Law No. 2/2001 (Maldives Civil Aviation Act);
(c) To develop and advance the civil aviation system of the Maldives in a planned and sustainable manner;
(d) To establish the regulations, principles, and standards necessary for the provision of civil aviation services in a safe and secure manner;
(e) To provide technical and administrative advice and assistance required by the government and the aviation industry in relation to civil aviation;
(f) To establish a fair and competitive environment in the civil aviation industry of the Maldives, and to promote and develop that industry;
(g) To prevent anti-competitive practices in the civil aviation business of the Maldives;
(h) To coordinate the matters to be undertaken by the Maldives under the international treaties to which the Maldives is a party, concerning civil aviation and the safety and security of civil aviation, and to directly carry out the matters to be undertaken by the Authority;
(i) To determine the fees for the services provided by the Authority and to write and publish the quality level of the services provided by the Authority;
(j) To represent the Maldives at international conferences on civil aviation;
(k) To provide information and guidance to the public on matters related to the civil aviation industry.

Powers of the Authority
6.
In accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act, the Authority is vested with the following powers to carry out the actions necessary to fulfill its responsibilities.
(a) To make and enforce regulations in relation to the following matters;
(1) Regarding the safety, security, and economy of civil aviation;
(2) Regarding the services provided by the Authority, the permits it issues, administrative actions to be taken against those who violate regulations, and the fines that may be imposed;
(3) Regarding the employment, termination, transfer, promotion, salary and benefits of employees working at the Authority, and the principles to which employees must adhere.
(b) To conduct various activities for the development of civil aviation, either by the Authority alone or in conjunction with the civil aviation authority of another country or with international organizations;
(c) To provide training to the Authority's employees, to grant scholarships, and to provide loans for obtaining training;
(d) To establish companies, purchase shares in companies, and participate in partnerships with the permission of the Minister;
(e) To participate in agreements for acquiring property and services in order to fulfill the Authority's responsibilities under this Act;
(f) To use the Authority's property, to conduct transactions with that property, and to obtain funds in the form of loans by mortgaging that property;
(g) To carry out the tasks necessary to fulfill the responsibilities stated in Section 5 of this Act or to facilitate those actions, and to carry out all necessary actions for the enforcement of this Act.

Regulations made prior to the commencement of this Act
7.
All regulations made by the Civil Aviation Department of the Ministry of Transport and Communication prior to the commencement of this Act shall be deemed to be regulations made by the Authority.

Chapter Four
Civil Aviation Policy

Policy of the Civil Aviation Sector
8.
(a) It is the responsibility of the Minister to formulate the policy regarding civil aviation in the Maldives in a manner consistent with the spirit of this Act and in a way that achieves the purposes of this Act.
(b) The Minister shall inform the Authority in writing of the government's general policies regarding civil aviation.
(c) Unless the Minister instructs otherwise, the Authority shall act in accordance with the policies determined by the Minister.

Powers and Responsibilities of the Minister
9.
The powers and responsibilities of the Minister are set out below.
(a) To determine, in consultation with the Authority's Board of Directors, policies for enhancing and maintaining the quality of civil aviation services;
(b) To formulate the principles, systems, and regulations necessary to make the Authority accountable to the Minister, and in relation to these matters, to issue necessary orders and take necessary measures;
(c) To be accountable to the President of the Republic and the People's Majlis regarding all matters of the Authority.

Chapter Five
The Authority's Board of Directors

The Authority's Board of Directors
10.
There shall be a Board of Directors of the Authority which shall be responsible for determining the policy of the Authority.

Composition of the Board of Directors
11.
(a) The Authority's Board of Directors shall be composed of 5 (five) members. The 5 (five) members are the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive of the Authority, and 3 (three) other directors.
(b) The Board shall be composed of persons with technical education and experience from one of the following fields.
(1) Aviation field;
(2) Business field;
(3) Legal field.

Qualifications of Board Members
12.
Members appointed to the Board must fulfill the following qualifications.
(a) Be a Maldivian citizen with the educational standard, competence, and work ethic to perform his or her responsibilities and duties;
(b) Not be a person convicted by a court within the past 5 (five) years of a crime for which a hadd is prescribed in Islam, or a crime of treachery, or a crime of bribery;
(c) Not be a person holding a position on the board of directors or any other position in a company providing civil aviation services or an institution operating under the regulations of the Authority;
(d) Not be a person who holds, in his or her own name or in the name of a party appointed by him or her or in the name of a company in which he or she has shares, more than 5% (five percent) of the total shares in a company providing civil aviation services or an institution operating under the regulations of the Authority;
(e) Not be a person holding an office elected or appointed under the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives or under a law.

Appointment of Board Members
13.
The Chairman of the Authority's Board of Directors, the Chief Executive of the Authority, and the other directors of the Board of Directors shall be appointed by the President of the Republic.

Term of Office
14.
(a) With the exception of the Authority's Chief Executive, the term of membership for members appointed to the Board is 5 (five) years. Each member so appointed shall be appointed for a maximum of 2 (two) terms.
(b) The Authority's Chief Executive shall be appointed for a term of 5 (five) years. And except for a Chief Executive removed under Section 17 of this Act, every other Chief Executive may be reappointed for a term of 5 (five) years. And a Chief Executive so appointed may continue to be appointed every 5 (five) years.

Duties and Responsibilities of the Board
15.
It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to determine the policy for the matters to be undertaken to enforce this Act and to determine the policy for the matters to be undertaken by the Authority to direct and develop the civil aviation sector. In addition, it is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to make regulations for the management of the Authority, to ensure that the Authority operates in accordance with those regulations, to make regulations for holding Board meetings, to determine the administrative policy of the Authority, and to do all things necessary to determine that policy.

Duties and Responsibilities of the Chairman
16.
(a) The responsibilities of the Chairman are to plan and manage the work of the Board of Directors and to preside over the meetings of the Board.
(b) The Chairman may delegate any or all of the discretions or powers vested in the Chairman under this Act to another member of the Board in a manner determined by the Chairman.

Removal from Office
17.
The President of the Republic is vested with the power to remove the Chairman, the Chief Executive, or any other member of the Board of Directors from office before the expiry of their term of office. When removing from office in this manner, the reason for removal must be stated.

Resignation from Office
18.
Should the Chairman, the Chief Executive, or any other member of the Board of Directors wish to resign from office before the expiry of their term of office, they may resign after notifying the President of the Republic in writing.

Vacancy of Office
19.
(a) If a director fails to attend 3 (three) consecutive meetings without obtaining written permission from the Chairman, the office of that director shall be deemed vacant.
(b) If the Chairman fails to attend 3 (three) consecutive meetings without obtaining written permission from the Minister, the office of the Chairman shall be deemed vacant.

Granting Leave
20.
(a) The Minister shall grant leave to the Chairman and the Chief Executive under a procedure determined by the Board.
(b) The Chairman shall grant leave to other directors of the Board under a procedure determined by the Board.

Conflict of Interest of Directors
21.
(a) When the Authority is considering a matter or issue in which any member of the Board of Directors has a personal interest, benefit, or role, that member shall not participate in any capacity in the consideration or decision of that matter or issue. And if it was not previously known that the matter being considered by the Authority is a matter or issue in which such an interest, benefit, or role exists, upon becoming aware of it, that member shall, upon notifying the Chairman, recuse themselves from considering that matter or issue or from making the decisions that need to be made regarding that matter or issue.
(b) Information received by members in their capacity as members of the Board of Directors is information that must be kept confidential. Such information shall not be disclosed to any party not related to the work of the Authority, except for the purpose of a state investigation body or for the purpose of a court of law.

Salary and Other Benefits
22.
The salary and other benefits of the Chairman and the Directors shall be determined by the President of the Republic.

Board Meetings
23.
(a) Meetings shall be held to carry out the work of the Authority as determined by the Chairman. In this regard, at least 1 (one) meeting shall be held in each calendar month.
(b) A meeting of the Authority can be held in the presence of at least 3 (three) directors.
(c) The Board shall decide on a matter by taking a vote of the members present at a meeting and in accordance with the majority. If a majority is not obtained to pass a matter and the votes are tied, the Chair is vested with the discretion to cast a vote to decide the matter.
(d) The meetings of the Board shall be presided over by the Chairman. In the absence of the Chairman, by another director of the Board designated by the Chairman.
(e) If no fewer than 3 (three) directors of the Board wish to hold a Board meeting, they may notify the Chairman in writing, stating the reason. And within 5 (five) days of the Chairman receiving that notice, a meeting shall be held regarding the matters stated in that notice.
(f) The Chief Executive is vested with the discretion to submit a written request to the Chairman asking the Board to decide on a matter urgently. If the Chief Executive makes such a submission, a Board meeting shall be held within 5 (five) days of receiving this submission, and a decision shall be made on the matter submitted by the Chief Executive.

Chapter Six
Management and Staff of the Authority

The Board's Chief Executive
24.
The head of the day-to-day management of the Authority, and the person who represents the Authority, is the Authority's Chief Executive.

Duties and Responsibilities of the Chief Executive
25.
The duties and responsibilities of the Chief Executive are set out below.
(a) To carry out the day-to-day tasks required for the enforcement of this Act in accordance with the policies determined by the Board of Directors;
(b) To manage the Authority in accordance with the policies determined by the Board of Directors;
(c) To write and maintain the minutes of the Board meetings, to open and close bank accounts, to maintain the accounts of the Authority, and to have all necessary things done to have the accounts audited.

Delegation of some responsibilities of the Chief Executive to another party
26.
The Chief Executive is vested with the discretion to delegate, in writing, the responsibility of carrying out a task stated as a task to be done by the Chief Executive under this Act to another director of the Board.

Employees
27.
The Chief Executive shall employ, transfer from one job to another, and terminate the employees required to carry out the work of the Authority, in accordance with Law No. 2/2008 (Employment Act) and the regulations determined by the Board.

Protection
28.
The Authority, an employee of the Authority, or a party working in the name of the Authority shall not be liable for any loss or damage that occurs or arises in the performance of a responsibility with due care and caution under a power conferred by this Act or a regulation made under this Act.

Chapter Seven
Financial Matters

Civil Aviation Fund
29.
A fund by the name of "Civil Aviation Fund" shall be established at the Maldives Civil Aviation Authority. It is the responsibility of the Chief Executive to maintain the fund under a procedure determined by the Authority.

Fee Collected from Passengers
30.
Two (2) US dollars out of the money collected under Law No. 71/78 (Law on the Collection of Airport Service Charge from Passengers Departing from an Airport in the Maldives to a Foreign Country) from each passenger departing from an international airport in the Maldives is money received by the Civil Aviation Fund.

Expenditure
31.
Unless otherwise stated in this Act, all expenditures that must be made by the Authority shall be made from the Civil Aviation Fund stated in Section 29 of this Act.

Obtaining Funds as a Loan
32.
Funds may be taken as a loan from the government or a financial institution to carry out the work to be done by the Authority.

Maintenance of Funds and Documents
33.
All financial accounts and all documents of the Authority shall be maintained in accordance with Law No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act).

Power to Invest
34.
The Authority's funds may be invested for the purpose of generating profit for the Authority. The amount to be invested and the sectors for investment in this manner shall be determined by the Board.

Financial Year
35.
The financial year of the Authority is from January 1 to December 31 of each calendar year.

Maintenance of Accounts
36.
The Authority shall maintain the documents of all financial transactions of the Authority.

Auditing of Accounts
37.
The accounts of the Authority must be audited annually by the Auditor General or an auditor acceptable to the Auditor General.

Remuneration of Auditors
38.
The auditors shall be paid by the Authority.

Auditors' Report
39.
At the end of each financial year, the financial statements of the Authority must be submitted to the auditors, and an auditors' report must be obtained.

Information to be included in the Auditors' Report
40.
The auditors' report shall include the following information.
(a) The extent to which the financial statements clearly show all the financial transactions of the Authority;
(b) The extent to which the bookkeeping documents of the Authority are clearly understood;
(c) Other information that the auditors deem necessary to include in an audit report.

Auditors Submitting a Matter to the Minister
41.
Auditors may submit a matter to the Minister at any time in connection with information obtained during the course of an audit.

Assisting Auditors
42.
(a) The Authority shall provide all documents and all financial information to the auditors without any hindrance. It is an offense for any person to obstruct the auditors.
(b) The penalty for a person who commits an offense stated in subsection (a) of this section is a fine of between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand), along with dismissal from employment.

Copy of a Document
43.
A copy of any document that the auditors require may be taken.

Annual Report
44.
A report on the operations of the Authority for the past year, together with the audited accounts, shall be prepared by the Authority within 4 (four) months of the end of each financial year, submitted to the Board of Directors and passed by that Board, and submitted to the Minister. And a copy of this report shall be sent to the People's Majlis.

Chapter Eight
Rights, Responsibilities, and Transfer of Employees

Permits Previously Issued by the Civil Aviation Department
45.
Permits, licenses, and certificates issued by the Civil Aviation Department of the Ministry of Transport and Communication prior to the commencement of this Act shall be deemed to be items issued by the Authority upon the commencement of this Act.

Transfer of Employees
46.
All employees working at the Civil Aviation Department of the Ministry of Transport and Communication at the time of the commencement of this Act shall be appointed as employees of the Authority.

Salary of Transferred Employees
47.
Within 3 (three) months from the date of commencement of this Act, the Authority shall determine the positions, job responsibilities, salaries, and benefits of the employees working at the Authority, and shall act in accordance therewith within 4 (four) months from the date of commencement of this Act. The salary and benefits given after the transfer of employees under Section 46 of this Act shall not be less than the salary and benefits that were being given to those employees by the Civil Aviation Department of the Ministry of Transport and Communication. And the position assigned to an employee shall not be a position lower than the position previously held by that employee.

Right to Pension and Other Benefits for Employees
48.
All matters related to the pension of the Authority's employees shall be determined in accordance with Law No. 8/2009 (Maldives Pension Act).

Chapter Nine
Reviewing Decisions of the Authority

Reviewing a Decision of the Authority
49.
If dissatisfied with a decision made by the Authority in carrying out a duty required by this Act or under a power granted to the Authority, any party who believes that their rights have been prejudiced by that decision has the right to submit a request to the Minister to have that decision reviewed.

How Matters Submitted to the Minister will be Handled
50.
(a) The Minister shall form an Appeals Committee to review matters submitted to the Minister as per Section 49 of this Act. The regulations on how the Appeals Committee will be formed and how the Appeals Committee will review matters shall be made by the Board of Directors.
(b) Matters submitted to the Minister as per Section 49 of this Act shall be reviewed and concluded by the Appeals Committee within 60 (sixty) days from the date the matter is submitted.

Reason for the Decision
51.
(a) If any party believes that their rights have been prejudiced by a decision made by the Authority in carrying out a duty required by this Act or under a power granted to the Authority, that party has the right to submit a written request to the Authority within 30 (thirty) days of being notified of that decision, asking for an explanation of the reasons considered in making that decision.
(b) Within 10 (ten) days of the Authority receiving a written request asking for an explanation of reasons as stated in subsection (a) of this section, a document stating the reasons on which the decision was based and the reasons considered in making that decision shall be given to that party.

Chapter Ten
Miscellaneous

Regulations
52.
Unless explicitly stated otherwise in this Act, all regulations that need to be made under this Act shall be made and enforced by the Authority. The regulations that need to be made under this Act shall be made and published in the Government of Maldives Gazette within 6 (six) months of the commencement of this Act.

Date of Commencement
53.
This Act shall commence on the day it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government of Maldives Gazette.

Definition of Words and Phrases
54.
Unless otherwise stated in this Act or unless the context in which the word or phrase appears directly implies otherwise, the words and phrases set out below shall be interpreted as follows.
"Authority" refers to the Maldives Civil Aviation Authority established by this Act.
"Minister" refers to the minister appointed to carry out the duties required of the Minister under this Act.
"Board" refers to the Board of Directors of the Authority.
"Chairman" refers to the Chairman of the Authority and any person temporarily performing the responsibilities of the Chairman of the Authority.
"Chief Executive" refers to the Chief Executive of the Authority and any person working in that capacity.
"Director" or "Directors" refers to the members of the Board of Directors of the Authority.
"Civil Aviation Department" refers to the institution that oversees and manages all civil aviation matters in the Maldives.
"Relevant Ministry" and "Ministry of Transport and Communication" refer to the ministry to which the oversight of the institution that oversees and manages all civil aviation matters in the Maldives is entrusted at that time.
