Maldives Civil Aviation Act

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This Act is the law concerning the registration, operation, and use of civil aircraft in the Maldives, the construction, registration, operation, and use of civil aerodromes, other matters related to civil aircraft and aerodromes, and the safety of civil aviation in the Maldives.

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Maldives Civil Aviation Act."

Oversight of Aviation Affairs

    The Ministry shall be responsible for exploring ways to develop civil aviation in the Maldives, arranging for air travel between the Maldives and other countries, establishing and strengthening relations with international aviation organizations and associations, arranging matters necessary for the regulation of air transport, and overseeing all matters related to civil aviation in the Maldives.

Aerodrome

Registration

    Civil aerodromes in the Maldives shall be constructed, registered, and used in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

Construction of Aerodrome

4.
(a) A civil aerodrome shall be constructed in the Maldives after acquiring the necessary land or site in a manner permitted by the laws of the Maldives, and after submitting the drawings of the proposed aerodrome, its details, and the information specified in the regulations made under this Act to the Ministry and obtaining the Ministry's permit.

(b) A civil aerodrome in the Maldives shall be operated after registering the aerodrome with the Ministry and obtaining a permit from the Ministry to operate the aerodrome, in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

Safety Zone around the Aerodrome

    For the safety of civil aviation, the Ministry is empowered to designate a specific area around each civil aerodrome and to establish standards and make regulations concerning the following activities within that area:

(a) Construction of buildings and various structures.
(b) Planting and cultivation of trees and crops.
(c) Operating and keeping various types of vehicles.
(d) Activities that may endanger the safety of air transport, such as lighting, keeping birds, and operating objects in the air.

Maintaining Standards in the Safety Zone

    If any activity mentioned in Article 5 within the area specified in that Article is contrary to the standards or regulations mentioned therein, the Ministry is empowered to order that the matter be brought into conformity with the standards or regulations. If an act contrary to such standards or regulations was carried out before the designation of the area, the owner of the aerodrome to which the area is connected shall pay fair compensation to the owner of the place or the person carrying out the activity for the expenses incurred in altering the matter to conform to the standards or regulations, and for any loss incurred by that person or party as a result of bringing the matter into conformity with the standards or regulations.

Aircraft

Registration and Operation

    Civil aircraft in the Maldives shall be registered and operated in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

Conditions for Registration

    A civil aircraft may be registered in the Maldives upon application to the Ministry for registration of the aircraft in accordance with the regulations made under this Act, if the following conditions are met:

(a) The aircraft for which registration is sought is not registered in another country.

(b) The party seeking to register the aircraft is:
(1) The Government of the Maldives, or
(2) A Maldivian citizen, or
(3) A company, association, or organization registered in the Maldives, or
(4) A foreigner residing in the Maldives or conducting business in the Maldives, or
(5) A company, association, or organization registered in a foreign country and conducting business in the Maldives.

Certificate of Registration

    After registering an aircraft for which an application for registration has been submitted in accordance with Article 8 of this Act, the Ministry shall issue a certificate of registration for that aircraft.

Maintenance of Ownership Information

    The Ministry shall maintain information on the owners of civil aircraft registered in the Maldives, and if any person has a right to any such aircraft as a mortgagee or otherwise, the information on such persons and the rights they possess.

Cancellation of Registration

    The Ministry is empowered to cancel the registration of a civil aircraft registered under this Act if any of the following circumstances arise in relation to the aircraft:

(a) A change in the information submitted in the application for registration of the aircraft.
(b) The destruction of the aircraft or its damage to the extent that it can no longer be flown.
(c) The expiration or invalidation of the lease agreement for an aircraft registered to be operated on lease.
(d) The person in whose name an aircraft is registered is not a person referred to in Article 8 (b) of this Act.
(e) The person in whose name the aircraft is registered submits a request to cancel the registration.

Air Transport Service Permit

Provision of Air Transport Service

    No person shall provide civil air transport services in the Maldives except after obtaining a permit issued by the Ministry.

Parties to whom a Permit may be Issued

    A permit to provide civil air transport services shall be issued if the applicant for the permit is a person who has the financial capacity, resources, facilities, capable personnel, and arrangements necessary to provide air transport services safely.

Airworthiness Certificate

Airworthiness Certificate

14.
(a) No civil aircraft registered in the Maldives shall be operated except after obtaining an airworthiness certificate for that aircraft in accordance with the regulations made by the Ministry.

(b) An airworthiness certificate for a civil aircraft registered in the Maldives shall be issued after considering the manner in which the aircraft is constructed, the aircraft's engine, the equipment on board the aircraft, the state of the aircraft's safety features, and other matters specified in the regulations made under this Act, and if these matters are at a standard determined by the Ministry.

Crew

Pilots, Crew Members, and Engineers to Obtain a License

    Civil aircraft registered in the Maldives shall be flown, and its crew members and engineers shall be persons who have been licensed for that purpose by the Ministry.

Persons to whom a License may be Issued

    The Ministry shall issue licenses to fly civil aircraft, and to act as crew members and engineers of civil aircraft, to persons who have been trained and have passed to a standard determined by the Ministry in accordance with a procedure established by the Ministry.

Air Transport Safety

Making Regulations on Safety Standards

17.
(a) The Ministry shall make regulations establishing standards and procedures to be followed in various matters for the safety of civil aviation in the Maldives, for the safety of persons and property transported by aircraft, and for the protection and safety of the public from any danger that may be caused by such aircraft.

(b) The standards, procedures, and regulations established by the Ministry under subsection (a) of this Article shall not be less than or inferior to those specified in the international conventions on such matters to which the Maldives is a party.

Inspection

Inspection of Aerodromes and Aircraft Safety Matters

18.
(a) Aircraft, aircraft engines, equipment, and other matters of aircraft used by various parties for civil aviation, and aerodromes, shall be inspected in accordance with a procedure determined by the Ministry to ascertain whether they are in conformity with this Act, the regulations made hereunder, and the standards established, and whether such things and places are at an adequate level of safety.

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this Article, the Ministry is empowered and has the authority to enter any aircraft, aerodrome, building, and place that the Ministry wishes to inspect, to inspect such places and the documents therein, and to copy the documents required by the Ministry.

Ordering Rectification of Safety Matters and Suspension and Cancellation of Permits

19.
(a) When an object or place referred to in Article 18 of this Act is inspected in accordance with that Article, and if such object or place or a matter related to it is contrary to this Act or the regulations made hereunder or is at an inadequate level or manner of safety, the Ministry is empowered to order the rectification of such object, place, or matter, and to order that such object or place not be used for civil aviation until after the matter has been rectified.

(b) If a person holding a permit to provide civil air transport services, an airworthiness certificate, a license to fly an aircraft, a license for a crew member of an aircraft, a license for an engineer of an aircraft, or any other permit issued under this Act or the regulations made hereunder, contravenes this Act or the regulations made hereunder or a condition of such permit, or if it appears to the Ministry that the continuation of the permit issued to such person may be dangerous to the air transport related to that person, the Ministry is empowered to suspend or cancel the permit issued to that person.

Accident Investigation

Accident Investigation

20.
(a) The Ministry shall investigate civil aircraft accidents occurring in the Maldives and accidents involving civil aircraft registered in the Maldives to determine the cause of the accident.

(b) The Ministry is empowered to investigate, or to participate in the investigation of, an accident occurring outside the Maldives to a civil aircraft registered in the Maldives, with the permission of the competent authorities of the country where the accident occurred, in accordance with the established procedure for that purpose.

(c) Civil aircraft accidents occurring within the areas designated for military use in the Maldives shall be investigated by the Ministry of Defence and National Security or in a manner determined by that Ministry.

(d) In investigating a civil aircraft accident under this Article, the investigations to be carried out to determine whether any person is at fault in the occurrence of the accident shall be carried out by the Ministry of Defence and National Security.

(e) In the light of the investigations carried out under this Article, the Ministry shall take the necessary measures for the safety and security of civil aviation.

Miscellaneous

Aircraft Not Liable for Nuisance Arising in Regular Operation

    An aircraft shall not be liable for any nuisance or annoyance caused to a person or persons in the ordinary course of its normal flight, without contravening this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

Acceptance of Permits Issued by Foreign Countries

    The Ministry is empowered to establish the conditions under which a permit issued by a country that is a party to the International Civil Aviation Convention, signed on December 7, 1944, by the members of the International Civil Aviation Organization, for the provision of civil air transport services, for flying civil aircraft, and for serving as crew members and engineers of civil aircraft, may be accepted in the Maldives, and to accept such permits.

Levying of Fees and Determination of the Amount of Fees

    The Ministry is empowered and has the authority to levy fees for the registration of things and places required to be registered under this Act, to obtain and renew the certificates and permits issued under this Act, and to levy fees for such permits, and to determine the amount of such fees.

Punishment

24.
(a) The punishment for a person who does an act for which a certificate or permit must be obtained under this Act without obtaining such certificate or permit is a fine of between MVR 50,000 and MVR 500,000, or imprisonment, or exile, or house arrest for a period of between 6 months and 2 years.

(b) The punishment for a person who willfully alters a certificate, permit, or any other document issued under this Act is a fine of between MVR 5,000 and MVR 50,000, or imprisonment, or exile, or house arrest for a period of between 6 months and 1 year.

(c) The punishment for a person who flies a civil aircraft in a manner likely to cause harm to a person's body or life is imprisonment or exile for a period of between 3 years and 5 years.

(d) Unless otherwise specified in another paragraph of this Article for taking action against persons who contravene this Act, such person shall be fined an amount not exceeding MVR 100,000.

Implementation of International Conventions

    The Ministry shall make the regulations required to be made under the international conventions on civil aviation and the safety of civil aviation to which the Maldives is a party, and shall carry out the matters required to be done by the Maldives under those conventions which are to be done directly by the Ministry. And if there is a matter to be done by another government authority under those conventions, it shall be done by the authority to which the President of the Republic assigns it.

Making and Enforcing Regulations

26.
(a) In addition to the regulations mentioned in the other articles of this Act, the Ministry shall make the regulations required to be made in relation to civil aviation, and shall enforce all regulations made under this Act.

(b) The administrative measures to be taken against persons who contravene the regulations made under this Act, and the fines that may be imposed, shall be determined in those regulations, and the Ministry is empowered and has the authority to take action against persons who contravene those regulations under those regulations. The fine so determined shall not exceed the amount mentioned in Article 24 (d) of this Act.

(c) If acting otherwise than as provided in a regulation made under this Act is the most beneficial course of action at that time, and if that course of action is one that will not cause danger to civil aviation, the Ministry is empowered to grant permission to act in that manner in that instance.

Scope of Application of the Act

    This Act and the regulations made hereunder shall apply to all civil aircraft within and flying in the territory of the Maldives, and to all civil aircraft registered in the Maldives, even if outside the Maldives.

Definitions

    In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:

(a) "Aerodrome" means any place designated, prepared, and equipped for the landing and take-off of aircraft.
(b) "Aircraft" means any machine that can derive support in the atmosphere from the reactions of the air.
(c) "Ministry" means the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation and its department of civil aviation.
