Maldives Statistics Act
Chapter One
Introduction

1. Introduction and Name

(a) This is the Act to establish a national statistics system in the Maldives, and to specify the principles for collecting, processing, disseminating, and using official statistics.

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Maldives Statistics Act."

2. Purpose of the Act

The main purposes of this Act are stated below.

(a) To develop the field of statistics in the Maldives, and to collect key statistics indicating the nation's economic, social, and environmental situation at a national level, and to provide them reliably and equitably to all citizens of the Maldives;

(b) To establish arrangements for the relevant authorities to provide, accurately and reliably, the statistics needed to formulate government policies, assess the extent to which the outcomes of those policies are achieved, and identify necessary changes;

(c) To encourage and increase awareness among the public to fulfill their individual responsibility of providing accurate information for important national surveys and censuses conducted at the national level;

(d) To increase statistical knowledge and skills in society, and to promote the proper use of statistics and making decisions based on them by raising awareness related to the field of statistics;

(e) To facilitate the proper use of official and administrative statistics collected and maintained by government agencies;

(f) To establish procedures for applying internationally accepted statistical standards and the fundamental principles of official statistics, or the U.N. Fundamental Principles of Official Statistics, in the collection, processing, dissemination, and use of official statistics in the Maldives;

(g) To maintain the confidentiality of data providers and to increase confidence in data collectors in the process of collecting, maintaining, and providing statistics;

(h) To fully coordinate the National Statistical System of the Maldives, to facilitate the reduction of expenditure on statistical work, and to encourage achieving the most desirable results;

(i) To reliably collect, maintain, and provide the statistics of the Maldives that need to be provided at an international level;

(j) To establish a system for strengthening relations with government agencies within the National Statistical System, and with international statistical organizations and institutions.
Chapter Two
Maldives Bureau of Statistics

3. Establishment of the Maldives Bureau of Statistics

(a) Upon the commencement of this Act, the "Maldives Bureau of Statistics" is hereby established as a separate government agency to determine the procedures for planning and conducting all matters related to statistics in the Maldives and to do all that is necessary to implement this Act.

(b) Upon the establishment of the Maldives Bureau of Statistics under subsection (a) of this Article, all property, resources, and funds allocated to the National Bureau of Statistics from the state budget and approved by the People's Majlis, which was in operation before the commencement of this Act, as well as all duties, responsibilities, rights, and benefits conferred upon the Bureau by law and under agreements, shall be transferred to the Maldives Bureau of Statistics.

(c) The Bureau referred to in subsection (a) of this Article shall operate with professional and technical expertise, and with professional independence, free from the power and influence of any political or other party.

(d) The Minister shall be answerable to the People's Majlis on matters concerning the Bureau.

4. Responsibilities and Duties of the Bureau

The responsibilities of the Bureau are stated below.

(a) To formulate standards to be applied in the Maldives, consistent with international standards, to facilitate the use of uniform standards in the collection, maintenance, and use of statistics in the Maldives;

(b) To establish and maintain the quality of procedures and standards for the collection, processing, dissemination, and use of official statistics;

(c) Recognizing official statistics as an essential tool in the development of a democratic society, to compile and disseminate information impartially and equitably in a manner that is easy to use, to assist in assessing the state of the nation in light of statistics on the Maldives' economy, society, environment, and population;

(d) To formulate procedures and regulations for the collection, storage, and dissemination of statistics in data-maintaining agencies, in accordance with internationally accepted norms, to ensure that the statistics provided by the National Statistical System are reliable;

(e) To conduct the census of population and housing of the Maldives and other important national surveys required for the collection of official statistics essential for assessing the development of the Maldives, and to develop classification or coding systems to be used in compiling statistics;

(f) To collect and maintain statistics on poverty and the vulnerability of living conditions;

(g) To collect, compile, and disseminate important economic statistics such as the National Accounts and the Consumer Price Index (CPI), which are necessary to assess the pace of economic development in the Maldives;

(h) To register and maintain a register of surveys conducted by the government and various state agencies for compiling official statistics and designated statistics;

(i) To collect, maintain, and provide official statistics and designated statistics required for determining the economic and social policies of the Maldives for its development and for assessing the extent of implementation of those policies, through the National Statistical System, to the parties that require such information;

(j) To conduct surveys on the labor market of the Maldives, and to collect, compile, and disseminate statistics on the labor market at least once every 3 (three) years;

(k) To establish relations in the field of statistics between countries and with international parties to contribute to and assist in the development and advancement of the National Statistical System of the Maldives;

(l) To coordinate the collection and maintenance of designated statistics required at the national level through the relevant agency;

(m) To formulate and implement national statistical strategies;

(n) To prepare the annual national statistical program based on national statistical strategies, determine the designated statistics to be produced through the National Statistical System, and disseminate them in accordance with the Dissemination Policy and the Advance Release Calendar;

(o) To act as an intermediary in providing statistical information about the Maldives to parties within and outside the Maldives;

(p) To build human capacity in the field of statistics to develop the National Statistical System;

(q) To provide technical advice to parties that maintain official statistics;

(r) To provide advice on how to rectify the use of statistics in an incorrect or misleading manner;

(s) To familiarize the public with laws and regulations related to statistics;

(t) To make and enforce regulations regarding the collection, safeguarding, maintenance, and dissemination of statistics;

(u) To provide necessary assistance from the Bureau in cases where any agency is unable to collect and compile official statistics maintained by relevant state agencies for the purpose of providing designated statistics; and the manner in which the Bureau shall provide such assistance must be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

(v) To do all things necessary to achieve the objectives of the Bureau under this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

5. Powers of the Bureau

(a) The Bureau has the power to do all things necessary, in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder, to carry out the responsibilities and duties specified for the Bureau in this Act.

(b) The Bureau has the power to charge a fee or a price for the services provided under this Act.

6. Chief Statistician

The Maldives Bureau of Statistics shall be managed by the Chief Statistician, upon the advice of the Minister.

7. Appointment of the Chief Statistician

(a) The Chief Statistician shall be appointed by the President in accordance with the provisions of this Article.

(b) The person appointed by the President under subsection (a) of this Article shall be selected from among those who respond to a public announcement.

(c) The first Chief Statistician appointed after the commencement of this Act shall be appointed by the President within 30 (thirty) days from the commencement of this Act.

8. Qualifications for the position of Chief Statistician

A person appointed as Chief Statistician must meet the following qualifications.

(a) Be a Muslim;

(b) Be a Maldivian citizen;

(c) Be of sound mind;

(d) Be at least 35 (thirty-five) years of age;

(e) Not have been convicted of an offense for which a hadd is prescribed in Islam, an offense of criminal breach of trust, or an offense of bribery;

(f) Not be a person who has an outstanding debt payable to a state agency and is not repaying it as determined;

(g) Not be a person serving a sentence for a criminal offense;

(h) Not be a person holding an elected or appointed position under the Constitution or a law, or a political position;

(i) Not be a person actively involved in the management of any government or private company, or a member of the board of directors of such a company;

(j) Not be a member of a political party;

(k) Be a person with the academic qualifications, competence, and work ethic to perform the responsibilities and duties of the position of Chief Statistician;

(l) Be a person who has obtained a first degree or an equivalent qualification from a government-recognized higher education institution in the field of statistics, economics, demography, or mathematics, has received training and experience in the field of statistics, and has experience and capability in the field of management.

9. Term of Office

The Chief Statistician shall hold office for a term of 5 (five) years from the date of his or her appointment. Any Chief Statistician, except one who is removed under Article 10 of this Act, may be reappointed for one additional term.

10. Removal of the Chief Statistician from Office

(a) The Chief Statistician shall be removed from office if the President finds that the Chief Statistician has committed an act unbecoming of the position, or that a situation has arisen that prevents him or her from performing the duties of the office, or that he or she lacks the capability to perform the duties of the office.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, no act done by the Chief Statistician in the performance of his or her duties to uphold the principles of statistics shall, in any circumstance, be considered a failure to perform the duties and responsibilities of his or her office.

11. Vacancy of the Post

(a) The post of Chief Statistician shall be deemed vacant in the following circumstances:
(1) Expiration of the term of office;
(2) Resignation;
(3) Removal from the post of Chief Statistician in accordance with Article 10 of this Act;
(4) Contesting for a position elected or appointed under the Constitution or a law;
(5) Death;
(6) Failure to meet any of the qualifications required by this Act for the Chief Statistician.

(b) If the post of Chief Statistician becomes vacant, a person shall be appointed to the post within 30 (thirty) days of the vacancy, in accordance with Article 7 of this Act.

12. Salary and Allowances of the Chief Statistician

The salary and allowances of the Chief Statistician are the salary and allowances determined for the position of a Deputy Minister.

13. Resignation of the Chief Statistician

If the Chief Statistician wishes to resign, he or she may submit a written notice to the President, and upon receipt of such notice by the President, he or she is deemed to have resigned from the post.

14. Responsibilities of the Chief Statistician

(a) The responsibilities of the Chief Statistician are stated below:
(1) To maintain the professional independence of the National Statistical System in technical and operational matters, to strengthen the National Statistical System, and to maintain the quality of official statistics;
(2) To plan, manage, and represent the National Statistical System at the national and international levels;
(3) To ensure that the collection, compilation, and dissemination of national statistics conform to statistical principles and international standards;
(4) To disseminate the designated statistics to be produced within the annual national statistical program on the dates specified in the Advance Release Calendar in order to maintain professional independence;
(5) To determine the long-term goals to be achieved through the National Statistical System;
(6) To manage the Bureau in accordance with the advice of the Statistical Council and to carry out the day-to-day tasks required for the implementation of the law, in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder;
(7) To carry out all matters specified as the responsibility of the Chief Statistician in this Act and in the regulations made under this Act.

(b) The Chief Statistician shall carry out the matters specified as the responsibility of the Chief Statistician in this Act independently, without the influence of any party.

15. Employees of the Bureau

(a) Upon the commencement of this Act, all employees of the National Bureau of Statistics, which was in operation before the commencement of this Act, are transferred to the agency established under Article 3 of this Act from that moment.

(b) The employees of the Bureau shall be governed by Law No. 5/2007 (Maldives Civil Service Act) and the regulations made thereunder.

(c) An administrative structure stating the job classifications and responsibilities of the technical and administrative staff of the Bureau shall be formulated by the Bureau with the advice of the Minister and submitted to the Civil Service Commission. And, that structure must specify the qualifications for the positions of the Bureau's employees and the number of employees required for various tasks.

16. Salary and Other Allowances of the Bureau's Employees

The salary and allowances of the employees of the Bureau shall be determined by the Civil Service Commission.

17. Assigning Responsibilities to Councils

(a) Certain responsibilities from among the responsibilities of the Bureau may be assigned to councils at the council level, to be managed under a decentralized system, in the manner specified in this Act.

(b) The Bureau shall assign any responsibility to councils only after ensuring that the council has adequate resources to implement that responsibility.

(c) Responsibilities assigned to councils under subsection (a) of this Article shall be assigned under an agreement between the Bureau and the respective council, in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

(d) The scope of the responsibilities assigned to councils under this Act, the method of obtaining the resources required to implement those responsibilities, the manner in which the Bureau and the councils will work together, and the procedures for coordinating the work shall be specified in the agreement made under subsection (c) of this Article.

18. Responsibility of Councils

The responsibilities to be performed by councils under this Act are stated below.

(a) To implement responsibilities related to statistics at the council level as directed by the Bureau under Article 17 of this Act;

(b) To provide assistance to the entities included in the National Statistical System in surveys and censuses conducted to collect official statistics within the jurisdiction of the respective council;

(c) To provide assistance to the Bureau in implementing the regulations made under this Act at the council level;

(d) To carry out all matters determined for councils to perform in the regulations made under this Act.

19. Responsibility of Other Institutions

Relevant state agencies shall provide assistance and cooperation to the Bureau in carrying out its responsibilities under this Act for collecting, maintaining, and providing statistics.

20. Legal Protection

No civil or criminal proceedings shall be brought against the Chief Statistician, an employee of the Bureau, or any other person included in the National Statistical System for any act done or omitted in good faith, in an official capacity, within the scope of the law or a power conferred by law, for the purpose of carrying out the responsibilities and duties of the Bureau and enforcing the powers conferred on the Bureau under this Act.

21. Assigning Work to Another Party

(a) With the consultation of the Statistical Council, and in a manner that does not conflict with this Act or any other law, the Chief Statistician, upon the advice of the Minister, may assign a task or part of the tasks of the Bureau to another party. Such assigned tasks shall be assigned under an agreement made between the two parties for that purpose.

(b) The types of tasks of the Bureau that may be assigned to another party as specified in subsection (a) of this Article and the procedures for assigning such tasks shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.
Chapter Three
Statistical Council

22. Statistical Council

(a) There shall be a Statistical Council to advise on the work of the Bureau, to formulate policies related to statistics in the Maldives, and to advance the National Statistical System.

(b) The Statistical Council shall consist of the following 10 (ten) members.
(1) The Chief Statistician;
(2) A representative from the Maldives National University;
(3) 4 (four) representatives determined by the Minister from among the state agencies that provide official statistics;
(4) 4 (four) representatives from the private sector and civil society who use the statistics compiled and disseminated by the Bureau, other than the state agencies mentioned in sub-paragraph (3) of this subsection.

(c) The member appointed to the Statistical Council from the Maldives National University under sub-paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of this Article must be a person who has obtained a degree-level qualification in the field of statistics or research and has experience in either of those fields.

(d) The members appointed to the Statistical Council as specified in sub-paragraphs (3) and (4) of subsection (b) of this Article must be persons who have obtained a degree or an equivalent qualification in a field such as statistics, economics, demography, social science, environmental studies, data science, or accounting, and have management experience.

(e) The Statistical Council shall be formed and its members appointed within 60 (sixty) days of the commencement of this Act, in accordance with Article 23 of this Act.

23. Appointment of Members

(a) Members shall be appointed to the Statistical Council by the Minister in the manner specified in this Article.

(b) The member specified in sub-paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of Article 22 of this Act shall be determined by the Maldives National University.

(c) Each time members specified in sub-paragraph (4) of subsection (b) of Article 22 of this Act are to be appointed, the Bureau shall submit to the Minister a number of names not less than the number of members to be appointed at that time.

(d) The names submitted by the Bureau to the Minister under subsection (c) of this Article shall be names selected from among those who respond to a public announcement.

24. Qualifications of Members

Persons appointed to membership of the Statistical Council must meet the following qualifications.

(a) Be a Muslim;
(b) Be a Maldivian citizen;
(c) Be of sound mind;
(d) Be at least 25 (twenty-five) years of age;
(e) Not have been convicted of an offense for which a hadd is prescribed in Islam, an offense of criminal breach of trust, or an offense of bribery;
(f) Not be a person who has an outstanding debt payable to a state agency and is not repaying it as determined;
(g) Not be a person serving a sentence for a criminal offense;
(h) Not be a person holding an elected or appointed position under the Constitution or a law, or a political position;
(i) Not be a person actively involved in the management of any government or private company, or a member of the board of directors of such a company;
(j) Not be a member of a political party;
(k) Be a person with the academic qualifications, competence, and work ethic to perform the responsibilities and duties of the position of a member of the Statistical Council.

25. Presiding over the Meetings of the Statistical Council

(a) The meetings of the Statistical Council shall be presided over by the Chief Statistician.

(b) The responsibilities of the person presiding over the meetings of the Statistical Council, as provided in subsection (a) of this Article, include planning and conducting the work of the council.

(c) In the absence of the person presiding over the meetings of the Statistical Council, he or she shall assign that duty to a person from among the members of the council.

26. Allowance for Members

Members of the Statistical Council, other than those who serve as members of the council by virtue of their position, shall be given an allowance determined by the Minister responsible for overseeing the financial affairs of the state for the meetings they attend.

27. Term of Membership

The term of membership for members appointed to the Statistical Council, other than the Chief Statistician, is 5 (five) years. This Article does not prevent the reappointment of a member so appointed for an additional term.

28. Vacancy of Post and Resignation

(a) The post of a member of the Statistical Council shall become vacant if any of the following circumstances arise.
(1) Resignation;
(2) Expiration of the term of membership;
(3) Failure to meet any of the qualifications required by this Act for members;
(4) Removal of a member from office by the Minister before the expiration of the member's term, upon finding that the member is not performing his or her responsibilities and duties;
(5) Death.

(b) A member of the Statistical Council who wishes to resign from his or her post may do so by a letter sent to the Minister. The member is deemed to have resigned from the post upon the Minister's receipt of the letter of resignation.

(c) If a member's seat on the Statistical Council becomes vacant, a person shall be appointed to the post within a maximum of 30 (thirty) days of the vacancy, in the manner specified in Article 23 of this Act.

29. Responsibilities of the Statistical Council

The responsibilities of the Statistical Council are stated below.

(a) To advise the Bureau in determining policies related to statistics in the Maldives and any other policies that need to be determined for the implementation of this Act;

(b) To review the extent to which the principles of statistics are applied and to advise the Bureau on matters that need further improvement;

(c) To study what information is most useful to the public in order to advance the field of statistics in the Maldives and to submit relevant proposals to the Bureau;

(d) To submit proposals to the Bureau regarding new areas where statistics need to be collected in order to advance the field of statistics in the Maldives;

(e) To study newly formulated standards related to statistics and to provide information regarding those standards to the Chief Statistician;

(f) To approve, once every year, the action plan on how the work of the Statistical Council is planned;

(g) To provide advice in determining the goals to be achieved by the Bureau, which are formulated and disseminated once every 5 (five) years;

(h) At the end of each year, to review the extent to which the action plan for that year was implemented, and if there are any unimplemented matters, to study the reasons for their non-implementation, and to advise the Bureau on the steps to be taken to resolve those matters;

(i) To advise the Bureau on possible steps to be taken to resolve difficulties encountered in implementing this Act;

(j) To review the work done by individual agencies in relation to achieving the matters necessary for the implementation of this Act, and to advise those agencies on matters that need to be rectified in the collection, maintenance, and provision of statistics;

(k) To carry out other matters specified as the responsibility of the Statistical Council in this Act.

30. Operation of the Statistical Council

(a) The regulations on the minimum frequency of council meetings, the quorum for meetings, how meetings will be held, and how the work of the council will be carried out.

(b) Matters related to holding meetings of the Statistical Council and the administrative matters required for its operation shall be arranged by the Bureau.
Chapter Four
National Statistical System

31. National Statistical System

The National Statistical System consists of the main statistical agency and other agencies that provide official statistics.

32. Main Statistical Agency

Within the National Statistical System of the Maldives, the main statistical agency consists of the Maldives Bureau of Statistics and all its employees.

33. Other Agencies Providing Official Statistics

(a) Other agencies providing official statistics are government and state agencies that collect, compile, and disseminate official statistics in accordance with this Act, other than the main statistical agency.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, agencies that collect information solely for administrative purposes under another law or regulation shall not be included within the meaning of other agencies providing official statistics.

(c) The agencies mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article must be professionally independent in technical and operational matters.

34. Establishment of Committees

The Bureau has the power to establish relevant committees, as specified in the regulations made under this Act, to obtain the advice necessary to carry out the responsibilities to be performed by the Bureau under this Act.
Chapter Five
Collection, Processing, and Use of Statistics

35. General Principles of Data Collection

(a) Statistics in the Maldives shall be collected through censuses, surveys, using official statistics maintained by state agencies and records collected and maintained by those agencies during their administrative work, and by other methods approved by the Bureau.

(b) All parties providing statistics shall use internationally accepted methods and classifications in collecting, using, and providing statistics.

(c) All agencies providing statistics shall use uniform standards determined by the Bureau in accordance with this Act for collecting, safeguarding, maintaining, and providing that information.

(d) The work of collecting statistical information shall be done in a way that minimizes the burden on the general public.

(e) In determining the methods or sources for obtaining data, statistics-maintaining agencies shall consider the quality of the data, the speed of availability, the cost involved, and the burden on the information providers.

(f) The collection of statistics under this Article shall be carried out in accordance with the fundamental principles of official statistics included in Schedule 1 of this Act.

36. Authorization for Data Collection

(a) The public may be questioned and surveys may be conducted to obtain the information specified under this Act only by officers authorized by the Bureau or the relevant agency. Surveys for collecting statistics for official purposes by government ministries and state institutions shall only be conducted by parties authorized by the Bureau. It is not mandatory to obtain authorization from the Bureau for surveys conducted in the Maldives by government ministries and state institutions for purposes other than official purposes.

(b) A pass indicating that they are authorized to collect statistics shall be issued to persons sent by the Bureau or any other state agency to collect information for statistical purposes under this Act.

(c) When conducting a survey, officers authorized to obtain information under subsection (a) of this Article must display the pass issued by the Bureau or the relevant agency in a manner visible to the person being questioned.

(d) All procedures related to the issuance and use of the pass mentioned in subsection (c) of this Article shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

37. Official Statistics

(a) Official statistics related to the areas specified in the long-term national statistical strategy formulated under this Act shall be provided by the state agency related to that area.

(b) Every agency that provides information on official statistics must have a system for maintaining and providing statistics related to that agency in accordance with the standards set by the Bureau.

(c) The periods within which agencies providing information on official statistics must share information with the Bureau, and the method of providing statistics, shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

38. Administrative Statistics

(a) Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, if the Bureau requires information collected and maintained by state agencies for administrative purposes, for statistical purposes, that information shall be provided to the Bureau as directed by the Bureau.

(b) The Bureau has the authority to obtain data and to obtain, study, and use information by linking various data sets at the agency level in obtaining administrative statistics.

(c) If any agency that maintains administrative statistics changes the way it handles the collection and storage of statistics, it must inform the Bureau and other agencies providing official statistics and seek their advice before making such a change.

(d) The procedures for how state agencies will maintain and provide administrative statistics to the Bureau for the purposes of this Act shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

39. Designated Statistics

(a) Surveys to obtain designated statistics shall be conducted by the Bureau or by a party designated for that purpose by the Bureau.

(b) The procedures related to conducting surveys to obtain designated statistics shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

40. How to Obtain Information from the Public for Statistics

(a) In conducting surveys to obtain information needed for statistics from various parties, one of the following two methods may be chosen:
(1) Obtaining information by directly questioning the person; or
(2) Obtaining information through a form that needs to be filled out to collect information.

(b) If information is obtained through a form under sub-paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this Article, in addition to the purpose for which the information is being obtained, information on how to proceed with the form shall be stated in the form.

(c) Except for surveys that must be conducted in another language, other surveys shall be conducted in the Dhivehi language.

(d) If a document is sent by the Bureau or any government agency to any party to obtain information for statistics, unless proven otherwise, it shall be considered that the document is authorized under this Act and that the information must be provided by that party.

(e) Any place may be entered for the purpose of collecting statistical information only by officers who have written permission from the Chief Statistician.

(f) In accordance with subsection (b) of this Article, any place may be entered for the purpose of collecting statistical information only with the permission of the owner or a resident of that place at that time.

(g) In accordance with subsection (f) of this Article, if the permission of the owner of a place or a person residing in a place is not obtained, that place may be entered only under a court order.

41. Census

(a) A census of the population and housing of the Maldives shall be conducted at least once every 10 (ten) years. The date for conducting the census shall be determined by the Bureau and announced to the public in advance.

(b) The census of population and housing of the Maldives and other censuses shall be conducted in accordance with the international standards in force regarding censuses.

(c) Providing information for censuses is a mandatory requirement for all parties under this Act.

(d) The matters to be covered in the census, the areas from which information can be obtained, the participating parties, and all procedures related to the census shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

42. Statistical Registers

(a) Registers of areas related to matters required by the Bureau for compiling statistics shall be established and maintained.

(b) The information required to compile the registers mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be provided to the Bureau by the agencies that maintain that information.

(c) Information contained in the registers compiled for statistical purposes may be provided only to the statistical work of the official statistics compiling agencies within the National Statistical System, when needed, under a procedure determined by the Bureau, with the permission of the Chief Statistician.

43. Processing and Using Statistical Information

(a) It is the responsibility of the Bureau to standardize the coding systems used in coding the information collected from activities conducted to obtain statistics.

(b) In coding the information mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article, a classification system prepared at the international level or a classification system prepared based on an international and national level system shall be used. Newly prepared classification systems must be systems approved by the Bureau.

(c) In using the information collected under this Act, the primary aim must be to fulfill the purpose for which the information was collected. In addition, the opportunity for further research on the collected information must be open.

(d) Any information designated as designated statistics shall be disseminated by the agency designated for that purpose in the National Statistical System or by the Bureau.

(e) Statistical information collected may be provided to other state agencies for their use, in accordance with the principles of confidentiality stated in this Act, and in accordance with the procedures determined by the Bureau.

44. Maintaining the Quality of Information

(a) All agencies that collect official statistics in accordance with this Act must ensure that the official statistics they collect and compile are reliable in terms of quality, timely, and a resource that is provided equitably to all parties.

(b) Information obtained and collected as statistics shall be disseminated as aggregate figures, in accordance with the procedures determined by the Bureau.

(c) In order to maintain the quality of official statistics, statistics should be compiled by linking various data at the level of the agencies that collect and maintain statistics in different fields.

(d) In order to strengthen the official National Statistical System, new technology and other resources should be used, and data collected by universities, the private sector, and civil society should be used in accordance with statistical principles.

45. Using Statistics for Research

(a) If any party requires detailed information from publicly available official statistics for a study, a request may be submitted to the Bureau to provide that information as specified in this Article.

(b) When submitting a request to provide statistics for a study as mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article, a request must be submitted to the Bureau stating information about the study, the extent to which statistics are needed for the study, and the purpose of the study.

(c) Statistics may be provided to any party for the purpose of research, on the condition of acting in accordance with the principle of confidentiality stated in this Act, and in a manner that does not violate that principle.

(d) Any information or document under this Article may be released to any party only after signing an agreement with that party which includes clauses on how such released information may be used, principles related to confidentiality, and the destruction of documents after the completion of the research.

(e) Studies based on information provided by the Bureau under this Article shall be provided to the Bureau upon request, at no additional cost.
Chapter Six
Confidentiality and Dissemination of Information

46. Confidentiality of Information

(a) The confidentiality of information obtained in surveys conducted to obtain information from the public for the purpose of collecting statistics shall be maintained. And, that information shall be used only for the purpose of the survey, in a manner that does not reveal the identity of any individual. Under no circumstances shall the personal information of a private individual be disclosed.

(b) When conducting surveys to obtain information from the public for statistical purposes, the authorized officer must explain to the respondent the purpose for which the information is being collected and that the respondent's information will be kept confidential.

(c) Data containing individual information collected from individuals and entities such as businesses for the purpose of compiling statistics shall be used solely for compiling statistics.

(d) State agencies that collect and maintain official statistics are required to maintain the confidentiality of such data containing individual information.

(e) All parties included in the National Statistical System must keep documents, forms, and similar materials used in censuses and surveys to obtain information confidential and maintain them securely until the statistics for those areas are prepared and disseminated. And, upon completion of the compilation of the statistics, these items must be destroyed in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

(f) Upon the commencement of this Act, employees assigned to statistical work in the Bureau and in the agencies providing information on official statistics included in the National Statistical System are a group that must agree to and sign a pledge to comply with this Act and to maintain the confidentiality of statistics, and must fully comply with it.

(g) The form of the pledge mentioned in subsection (f) of this Article shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

(h) The procedures that state agencies must follow to maintain confidentiality in the collection and dissemination of information for statistics under this Act shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

47. Dissemination of Statistics

(a) Information collected under this Act shall be used only for statistical purposes.

(b) When disseminating information obtained from any party as statistics under this Act, it shall not be disseminated in a way that reveals the identity of the party to whom the information pertains.

(c) No information collected under this Act shall be disclosed to an unauthorized party, except as provided in subsection (d) of this Article.

(d) Except for an employee assigned to statistical work under this Act, an authorized officer shall not disclose the following information without first obtaining the written permission of the person who provided the information, or if it is a business, the person in charge of managing and operating that business or work.
(1) Information provided for the purpose of this Act or a part of such information;
(2) An answer to a question asked for the purpose of this Act;
(3) A report or summary document prepared using information contained in an answer given to a question, if the way the information is included in the report or summary document may reveal who it is, or which business or work it is;
(4) Information stored using an electronic device or a part of such information.

(e) Subsection (c) of this Article shall be exempted if, in a situation permitted by law, any personal information of an individual, a business, or a person engaged in a work, from among the information in subsection (d) of this Article, is published by that person himself, or if such information is made publicly available through electronic means.

(f) Sub-paragraph (3) of subsection (d) of this Article does not prevent the publication of information in a report, a summary of a report, or a similar document in such a way that it does not reveal the amount spent by the party to whom the published information pertains to produce that item, or the amount of capital used for that purpose, or the amount of profit obtained from that work, if the only reason for the public knowing the party to whom the information pertains is that that party is the only one active in that field.

(g) Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, personal information of an individual contained within the information collected under this Act shall not be used by any party for any investigation, prosecution, a case pending in a court, or for taking an administrative action.

(h) Documents, forms, and similar materials used in censuses and surveys to obtain information for statistical purposes under this Act shall be destroyed upon the completion of the preparation of the statistics for those areas.

48. Advance Release Calendar

(a) Official statistics shall be disseminated in a manner that is available to all individuals on an equal basis, in accordance with a pre-determined and publicly announced release calendar.

(b) All agencies that collect official statistics and the Bureau must state in the annual national statistical program the manner and dates for disseminating the designated statistics to be produced through the National Statistical System, publicly announce it, and adhere to those dates. If any change is made to those dates, a new date must be set in advance and it must be publicly announced.

49. Responsibilities of Individuals

(a) When an authorized officer, acting under the authority of this Act in the work of collecting statistics, requests information from the general public, that person must provide true information.

(b) If instructed to complete a form or similar document prepared by the Bureau for collecting information and to submit it to the Bureau within a certain period, that form must be completed and submitted to the Bureau within that period.

(c) No person shall commit any act to obstruct an authorized officer engaged in the work of obtaining statistical information from performing his or her duties.

(d) Untrue information shall not be given in a survey conducted by the Bureau or any state agency for the purpose of collecting statistics, or on a form provided by such agencies.

(e) Before giving any statistical information to any person under this Act, it must be verified that the person coming to collect the information is an authorized person for that purpose. And it is not mandatory under this Act to give information to a person who does not have a pass indicating such authorization.
Chapter Seven
Taking Action

50. Using Information for Personal Gain

(a) An employee of the Bureau or an employee of another agency providing official statistics shall not, before using information obtained in the course of employment, use that information directly or indirectly for his or her personal gain or benefit.

(b) A person who violates subsection (a) of this Article, taking into account the gravity of the act committed, shall have action taken against him or her in accordance with the Employment Act, and in addition, the Bureau has the discretion to fine that person an amount between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 60,000 (sixty thousand).

51. Collecting Statistics in Violation of the Law

(a) Except for a matter specified in this Act, an officer authorized under this Act shall not collect statistical information or statistics outside the scope granted to that person.

(b) A person who violates subsection (a) of this Article, taking into account the gravity of the act committed, shall have action taken against him or her in accordance with the Employment Act, and in addition, the Bureau has the discretion to fine that person an amount between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 60,000 (sixty thousand).

52. Disclosing Information Obtained in Violation of the Law

(a) No agency providing official statistics shall, knowingly, publish or provide to another party, information obtained in violation of this Act.

(b) A person who violates subsection (a) of this Article, taking into account the gravity of the act committed, shall have action taken against him or her in accordance with the Employment Act, and in addition, the Bureau has the discretion to fine that person an amount between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 60,000 (sixty thousand).

53. Unauthorized Disclosure of Information

(a) Information obtained by virtue of one's employment shall not be disclosed to the public without authorization. Nor shall such information be disclosed to an unauthorized party.

(b) A person who violates subsection (a) of this Article, taking into account the gravity of the act committed, shall have action taken against him or her in accordance with the Employment Act, and in addition, the Bureau has the discretion to fine that person an amount between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 60,000 (sixty thousand).

54. Obstructing the Performance of Duties

(a) No person shall obstruct an officer authorized under this Act from performing a duty he or she is required to perform.

(b) If subsection (a) of this Article is violated, the Bureau has the discretion, taking into account the gravity of the matter, to impose a fine of an amount between MVR 1,000 (one thousand) and MVR 5,000 (five thousand).

55. Impersonation

(a) No person other than an officer authorized to collect statistics under this Act shall represent himself or herself as a person authorized to collect statistics and carry out the work of collecting information.

(b) If subsection (a) of this Article is violated, in addition to a fine of an amount between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 30,000 (thirty thousand), criminal charges shall be brought against that person under a law that defines criminal offenses.

56. Failure to Return Information After Completion

(a) Any paper, form, or other such document that has been sent to or handed over to any person for the collection of statistics under this Act, which must be returned after completing the information, shall be sent within the period specified for its return.

(b) The Bureau has the discretion to fine a person who violates subsection (a) of this Article an amount between MVR 2,500 (two thousand five hundred) and MVR 5,000 (five thousand).

(c) If a state institution violates subsection (a) of this Article, the most senior person in charge of running that institution shall be fined in accordance with subsection (b) of this Article.

57. Failure to Provide Information

(a) Answers shall be given to questions asked by an officer authorized under this Act, and the information that person needs to clarify shall be provided in the manner specified in this Act.

(b) The Bureau has the discretion to fine a person who violates subsection (a) of this Article an amount between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 30,000 (thirty thousand).

(c) If a state institution violates subsection (a) of this Article, the most senior person in charge of running that institution shall be fined in accordance with subsection (b) of this Article.

58. Negligence in Providing Information

(a) Untrue information shall not be included when completing any item, form, or other such document that must be returned, which has been sent to that person for the collection of information under this Act, or when answering a question or a request for clarification of information, or when providing information or a statement.

(b) The Bureau has the discretion to fine a person who violates subsection (a) of this Article an amount between MVR 2,500 (two thousand five hundred) and MVR 5,000 (five thousand).

59. Punishment for Criminal Offenses

This Act does not prevent criminal charges from being brought and punishment determined under a law that defines criminal offenses against persons who commit an act prohibited by this Act or who violate this Act, in addition to the administrative action taken under this Act.
Chapter Eight
Financial Matters

60. Budget

The money required for the Bureau to perform its responsibilities shall be included in the state budget approved by the People's Majlis each year and released to the Bureau. To that end, in order to include the money required to run the Bureau in the state budget, the Ministry shall send it to the Minister responsible for overseeing the financial affairs of the state, in accordance with Law No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act) and the regulations made thereunder.

61. Service Fee

The Bureau has the discretion to charge a service fee for the services it provides. The amount and procedure for charging a fee for such services shall be specified in the regulations made by the Bureau under this Act.

62. Financial Matters

All accounts and documents of the Bureau shall be maintained in accordance with Law No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act).

63. Auditing

The accounts relating to the income, expenditure, assets, and financial liabilities of the Bureau shall be written, maintained, and audited with the consultation of the Auditor General, in a manner determined by the Auditor General.

64. Annual Report

Within 3 (three) months of the end of each financial year, a report on the operations of the Bureau and its activities during the past year shall be compiled, and the Chief Statistician shall submit that report to the Minister.
Chapter Nine
Miscellaneous

65. Maintaining Confidentiality

(a) Information received by members of the Statistical Council or committee members in their capacity as such is information that must be kept confidential. Such information shall not be disclosed to any person except to a person to whom it must be disclosed in a manner permitted by law.

(b) Members of the Statistical Council must agree to and sign a pledge to maintain the confidentiality of statistics and must fully comply with it.

(c) Information received by an employee of the Bureau in his or her capacity as an employee is information that must be kept confidential. Such information shall not be disclosed to any person except to a person to whom it must be disclosed in a manner permitted by law.

(d) While holding office and after leaving office, the information received in the performance of one's duties shall be kept confidential.

(e) A system for securely maintaining the information maintained by the Bureau under this Act must be established in the Bureau.

66. Making Regulations

(a) Unless otherwise specified in this Act, the regulations that need to be made under this Act shall be made and implemented by the Bureau.

(b) Unless otherwise specified in this Act, the regulations that need to be made under this Act shall be made and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives within 6 (six) months of the commencement of this Act.

67. Schedule

The schedule referred to in this Act and attached to this Act is part of this Act.

68. Commencement

This Act shall come into force on the date it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

69. Definitions

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms and phrases shall have the meanings given below in relation to those terms and phrases.

(a) "Authorized officer" refers to the persons to whom authorization is issued under Article 36 of this Act. And this definition includes supervisors, enumerators, and persons authorized to do data entry work appointed for censuses and surveys.

(b) "Statistical Council" refers to the Statistical Council specified in Article 22 of this Act.

(c) "Bureau" refers to the Maldives Bureau of Statistics specified in Article 3 of this Act.

(d) "Chief Statistician" refers to the person specified in Article 6 of this Act as the head of the Bureau.

(e) "Financial year" refers to the period from the date of commencement of this Act until 31 December of that year for the first accounting period, and thereafter to the 12 (twelve) month period ending on 31 December of each subsequent year.

(f) "Agencies providing official statistics" refers to government and state agencies involved in obtaining, collecting, compiling, disseminating, and providing information required for official statistics in accordance with this Act.

(g) "Member" refers to the members appointed under Article 23 of this Act.

(h) "Census" refers to information collected within a specified period, including the entire population of the Maldives or all items in a specified specific area.

(i) "Population and housing census" refers to information collected within a specified period, including all places where people live in the Maldives and all individuals.

(j) "Other censuses" refers to information collected within a specified period, including the entire population of other types (such as business establishments, vegetation), or a specified specific item, other than the population and housing census. When referring to other censuses, the name of the item to which the census pertains should be brought before the census (such as Economic Census, Agriculture Census).

(k) "National Statistical System" refers to the National Statistical System composed as per Article 31 of this Act.

(l) "Survey" refers to the collection of information based on a sample selected to represent a specific population or a part of a specific population, without including the entire population.

(m) "Statistics" refers to the result produced in the form of aggregate figures, after collecting and compiling information in such a way that no specific individual is identified.

(n) "Classification" or "Coding System" refers to the computational systems used to convert the obtained information into statistics.

(o) "Administrative statistics" refers to information collected under an effective law or regulation.

(p) "Designated statistics" refers to statistics from within the official statistics that are prioritized at that time for production through the National Statistical System and are included in the annual statistical program.

(q) "Official statistics" refers to economic, social, environmental, and demographic statistics required for policy determination and for assessing the extent of policy implementation at the national level by various sectors, and required by international parties. And such statistics are statistics that meet the quality standards assessed and determined by the Bureau based on the principles of statistics, by the agencies included in the National Statistical System of the Maldives.

(r) "Employees assigned to statistical work" refers to the employees working in the agencies included in the National Statistical System.

(s) "Ministry" refers to the ministry to which the responsibility for implementing the statistical policies of the Maldives is assigned at the time.

(t) "Minister" refers to the minister of the government ministry to which the responsibility for determining and implementing the statistical policies of the Maldives is assigned at the time.

(u) "Public Finance Act" refers to Law No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act), including amendments made to it.

(v) "Councils" refers to the island councils, atoll councils, and city councils specified in Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act of the Maldives).

(w) "Statistical register" refers to lists compiled solely for statistical purposes, containing basic information about various places and units (such as businesses and work establishments, households, buildings) that need to be identified in conducting census and survey samples and in collecting and compiling statistics, in a way that the place can be identified.

(x) "Dissemination Policy" refers to the policy that determines the principles to be followed in disseminating and making revisions to the official statistics compiled through the National Statistical System, the ways to be followed in providing it equitably to everyone, and the principles to be followed in disseminating statistics.

(y) "Advance Release Calendar" refers to the calendar that is publicly announced to inform the public in advance of the dates and times set for the dissemination of official statistics.
Schedule 1
Fundamental Principles of Official Statistics

Principle 1:
Official statistics are an indispensable element in the information system of a democratic society, serving the Government, the economy and the public with data about the economic, demographic, social and environmental situation. To this end, official statistics that meet the test of practical utility are to be compiled and made available on an impartial basis by official statistical agencies to honour citizens' entitlement to public information.

Principle 2:
To retain trust in official statistics, the statistical agencies need to decide according to strictly professional considerations, including scientific principles and professional ethics, on the methods and procedures for the collection, processing, storage and presentation of statistical data.

Principle 3:
To facilitate a correct interpretation of the data, the statistical agencies are to present information according to scientific standards on the sources, methods and procedures of the statistics.

Principle 4:
The statistical agencies are entitled to comment on erroneous interpretation and misuse of statistics.

Principle 5:
Data for statistical purposes may be drawn from all types of sources, be they statistical surveys or administrative records. Statistical agencies are to choose the source with regard to quality, timeliness, costs and the burden on respondents.

Principle 6:
Individual data collected by statistical agencies for statistical compilation, whether they refer to natural or legal persons, are to be strictly confidential and used exclusively for statistical purposes.

Principle 7:
The laws, regulations and measures under which the statistical systems operate are to be made public.

Principle 8:
Coordination among statistical agencies within countries is essential to achieve consistency and efficiency in the statistical system.

Principle 9:
The use by statistical agencies in each country of international concepts, classifications and methods promotes the consistency and efficiency of statistical systems at all official levels.

Principle 10:
Bilateral and multilateral cooperation in statistics contributes to the improvement of systems of official statistics in all countries.
