Maldives Energy Act

Chapter One
Commencement

Introduction

    This is the Act to establish the principles relating to the generation, use, and supply of energy in the Maldives, to determine the rights of energy service users and the rights and responsibilities of entities providing energy as a public utility service, to maintain the quality of service provided by such entities, to ensure the provision of services to consumers at a reasonable price, to specify the responsibilities of relevant authorities, to promote renewable energy, and to establish the principles for creating an energy sector in the Maldives that is sustainable, environmentally friendly, resilient to climate change, has a low share of greenhouse gas emissions, and is a low-cost energy system.

Name
2. This Act shall be cited as the "Maldives Energy Act".

Objectives
3. The objectives of this Act are stated below.
(a) To manage and maintain the affairs of the energy sector of the Maldives under a robust system with safety and security;
(b) To determine the rights and responsibilities of energy service consumers and service providers;
(c) To specify the principles for licensing energy service providers;
(d) To ensure that every inhabited island has access to reliable and sustainable energy services at a reasonable price;
(e) To develop the Maldives' energy sector in a sustainable manner, to encourage the reduction of energy wastage, and to establish a system for monitoring and ensuring compliance with the standards set by the Authority;
(f) To determine the responsibilities and powers of state institutions in the sustainable provision and promotion of energy services in the Maldives;
(g) To minimize the harm to the environment and public health during the establishment and operation of energy services;
(h) To protect, preserve, and develop the available energy resources in the Maldives for sustainable use by current and future generations, and to establish and enforce methods for obtaining their full benefit;
(i) To encourage and empower relevant state institutions to formulate plans and work thereunder to develop, advance, and improve the quality of energy services in the Maldives' energy sector;
(j) To formulate the necessary plan to transition the Maldives' energy sector to renewable energy in order to achieve the goals set in relevant laws and regulations to make the Maldives a carbon net-zero nation; and
(k) To establish a system for taking action against those who cause damage to energy resources and services intentionally or through negligence in the provision and maintenance of energy services.

Law Implementation and Policy Making
4. (a) Energy services shall be provided in accordance with policies determined by the government. Energy policies in the Maldives shall be determined by the Minister upon the advice of the President of the Republic. Policies determined by the Minister in this manner shall be published in the Government of Maldives Gazette in a publicly accessible way. And if any changes are made to these policies, those changes must be regularly gazetted.
(b) Every party planning or conducting the work of providing an energy service must fully comply with the policies established under subsection (a) of this Article.
(c) The Minister shall publish the government's energy policy in the Government of Maldives Gazette, outlining the government's determined approach to advancing and developing the Maldives' energy sector. And this policy shall be reviewed and necessary changes shall be made once every 5 (five) years.
(d) The Minister shall prepare a report on the implementation of the Maldives' energy policy and send it to the President of the Republic and the People's Majlis within 3 (three) months of the end of each calendar year.

Precedence of this Law
5. If an article or a principle stipulated in this Act concerning energy conflicts with another law, precedence shall be given to the articles and principles in this Act.

Energy Plan
6. (a) The Minister shall formulate a plan, consistent with the energy policy, that includes the goals to be achieved within a 10 (ten) year period for developing and advancing the Maldives' energy sector, the transition of the country's energy sector to renewable energy, and improving the quality of energy services. And this plan shall be reviewed every 5 (five) years.
(b) The Minister shall send the energy plan formulated under subsection (a) of this Article to the President of the Republic and the People's Majlis within 30 (thirty) days of its formulation. And within 3 (three) months of the end of each calendar year, the Minister shall send a report to the President of the Republic and the People's Majlis on how the objectives intended to be achieved in the energy plan for the past year were accomplished.
(c) Every party licensed to provide energy services shall, in accordance with the national energy policy, formulate a plan for providing energy services and submit it to the Ministry within 3 (three) months of receiving the license. And upon the end of each calendar year, those parties shall submit a report to the Ministry on how the plan was implemented during that year within the first 3 (three) months of the following year.

Chapter Two
Role of Institutions

Enforcement of the Law
7. For the purpose of enforcing this Act, all parties shall fully fulfill all responsibilities and duties assigned to them by this Act.

Responsibilities of the Ministry
8. For the purpose of enforcing this Act, the responsibilities of the Ministry shall include the following matters.
(a) To facilitate the provision of electricity services at a reasonable and fair price to all inhabited islands in the Maldives;
(b) In collaboration with relevant authorities, to increase investment opportunities in the energy sector, to formulate the necessary guidelines and projects for it, to undertake all necessary work to establish a favorable investment environment in the Maldives, and to expand opportunities for investors to easily obtain relevant information;
(c) To provide necessary technical assistance to Local Councils for implementing renewable energy projects that they participate in;
(d) To carry out the work necessary for the implementation of treaties and protocols in which the Maldives has participated in the energy sector;
(e) To regulate the energy sector and formulate the necessary regulations; and
(f) To ensure the required amount of energy for all islands of the country in a sustainable manner.

Responsibilities and Powers of the Authority
9. For the purpose of enforcing the matters in this Act, the responsibilities and powers of the Authority shall include the following matters.
(a) To enforce this Act and the regulations and principles formulated by the Ministry under this Act;
(b) To issue, renew, amend, revoke, and suspend licenses for places and parties providing energy services;
(c) To determine the standards of parties working in the energy sector, to assess and classify their standards, and to determine their service areas;
(d) To determine the maximum price at which electricity can be sold, to review, monitor, and amend the price;
(e) To determine the standards that must be met in places providing energy services;
(f) To monitor the providers of energy services and to take action against those who violate the rules in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act;
(g) In consultation with relevant authorities, to create, publicize, and enforce standards related to the environment, public health, and safety concerning the energy sector;
(h) To approve electricity purchase and sale agreements, and agreements related to the provision of electricity network services;
(i) In situations where it is believed that an act has been committed in violation of this Act or regulations made under this Act concerning an energy service, to enter, inspect, and search places;
(j) To issue notices to parties as required to act in accordance with this Act and regulations made under this Act;
(k) To regulate and oversee the following matters related to the energy sector;
(1) Generation, supply, distribution, and use of energy;
(2) Import, re-export, refining, export from the Maldives, transportation from one place to another, storage, and sale of petroleum and petroleum products; and
(3) Generation, supply, distribution, sale, marketing, and use of renewable energy.
(l) To protect the rights of energy purchasers and parties investing in the energy sector;
(m) To collect, analyze all information and statistics related to the energy sector, and to arrange for such information to be made available to the Ministry when needed;
(n) To facilitate the establishment of laboratories to assess energy efficiency standards, and to regulate, assess the quality of, and issue licenses to such places in accordance with regulations formulated by the Ministry on the matter; and
(o) In consultation with relevant authorities, to determine the minimum standards that energy-consuming appliances that can be imported into the Maldives must meet.

Responsibilities and Powers of Councils
10. Under this Act, the responsibilities and powers vested in the councils include carrying out the following matters in accordance with government policies.
(a) To enforce all matters designated as the responsibilities of the councils in this Act and regulations made under this Act at the council level;
(b) In accordance with policies determined by the relevant Ministry, to plan energy services at the council level, formulate projects, and implement projects;
(c) To ensure that energy services are provided equitably by the service providers at the council level;
(d) To ensure that financial and technical resources required for providing energy services are available and to provide assistance in that regard;
(e) In accordance with government policies and regulations made under this Act, and with the advice of the public, to determine the price to be charged for electricity services provided within the jurisdiction of the council, in a manner not exceeding the price determined by the Authority;
(f) Notwithstanding what is stated in subsection (b) of this Article, in a situation where the council decides to sell electricity at a price lower than the price determined by the Authority, the council must arrange for the price difference to be paid to the service provider. And in a situation where such a price difference must be paid, the funds allocated as the annual state budget for that island or city cannot be used;
(g) If the provision of energy services is to be entrusted to a third party, to entrust such work to a party in accordance with relevant laws, regulations, and principles, and to monitor the manner in which that party provides the service and take necessary measures to maintain the quality of service in accordance with relevant regulations;
(h) To protect the rights of the service provider and the service recipient;
(i) To plan and conduct public awareness programs regarding energy;
(j) To provide necessary information to the Authority and relevant government institutions for the purpose of formulating national policies on energy and collecting various statistics;
(k) To carry out the work of providing energy services assigned to the councils, by entrusting it to a licensed party under an agreement made with that party;
(l) To promote and increase the use of renewable energy, notwithstanding any other provision in any other law, a local council within its jurisdiction has the authority to formulate and enter into all necessary agreements related to renewable energy generation; and
(m) Notwithstanding what is stated in subsection (l) of this Article, such agreements shall be formulated in accordance with the regulations made by the Ministry for this purpose, with the consultation of the party licensed to provide energy services in the council's jurisdiction, and on the condition that the council bears all financial liabilities arising from the agreements. And agreements made in this way must be registered with the Authority.

Responsibility of Other State Institutions
11. (a) Every party must provide the cooperation and assistance required by various parties for the enforcement of this Act.
(b) The state shall provide the financial assistance required by various state institutions for the enforcement of this Act.

Chapter Three
Renewable Energy

Ownership of Renewable Energy
12. (a) All renewable energy resources naturally existing within the territory of the Maldives are the property of the Maldivian state.
(b) Upon the commencement of this Act, the Ministry shall begin the work of conducting a survey of all renewable energy resources within the territory of the Maldives.
(c) Within 24 (twenty-four) months of the commencement of this Act, the Ministry shall compile an inventory of renewable energy resources within the territory of the Maldives, create a chart representing these resources, and make it public. And this information shall be reviewed and made public once every year.

Promotion of Renewable Energy
13. (a) The Ministry shall carry out the work necessary to develop the renewable energy sector, increase the generation and use of energy from renewable energy resources, and to use and develop renewable energy technologies.
(b) With the consultation and participation of relevant institutions, the Ministry shall work to advance the renewable energy sector, including the following activities.
(1) To encourage and facilitate the conduct of renewable energy research in the Maldives;
(2) To work on introducing and promoting renewable energy resources and technologies;
(3) To develop the Maldives' human resources in the renewable energy sector;
(4) To participate in associations, treaties, and protocols for the benefit of the Maldives in the renewable energy sector, and to carry out the work required under such associations, treaties, and protocols in which the Maldives has participated;
(5) To identify the barriers to using renewable energy resources and technologies, to work on eliminating those barriers, and to establish a favorable environment in the Maldives for generating and using electricity from renewable energy; and
(6) To formulate a robust and easy system for private parties to generate, use, and sell energy to service providers, and to facilitate it.
(c) The electricity service provider shall arrange for renewable energy to be fed into the island's electricity grid to the maximum extent the grid allows, and the service provider and the council shall publicize the amount of renewable energy being used within the grid and the additional amount that can be used, updating this information once every 6 (six) months.

Setting Targets for Electricity Generation from Renewable Energy
14. The Minister shall set a specific target for generating electricity from renewable energy among the electricity generated and supplied in the Maldives. The target set in this manner shall be reviewed once every 5 (five) years. And to generate and supply electricity to the public from renewable energy to the extent set in this manner, service providers shall cooperate with various projects run by the government.

Use of Areas and Places for Electricity Generation from Renewable Energy by the Government
15. (a) Through projects run by the government, private parties, and in partnership with the government, for the purpose of generating electricity from renewable energy, the party designated by the Ministry has the authority to use the roofs, land areas, and other open spaces of places determined by the Ministry, including social housing units and other government buildings constructed to provide housing for the public, in accordance with the regulations made under this Act for that project.
(b) In addition to the places that can be used for generating electricity from renewable energy as specified in subsection (a) of this Article, this includes places determined by the local council within its jurisdiction, the roofs and terraces of buildings, and lands and buildings thereon allocated to various government ministries and other institutions under the Maldives Land Act, which the Ministry determines to be most suitable for establishing a renewable energy generation system.
(c) In development projects, built environment plans, and other development plans implemented in the Maldives, priority shall be given to methods that facilitate the easy establishment of renewable energy systems.

Prioritizing Renewable Energy
16. In the use of energy resources in the Maldives, in a situation where more than one type of resource can be used for the same purpose, priority shall always be given to renewable energy that is environmentally friendly and has the least harmful impact on climate change.

Chapter Four
Petroleum and Petroleum Products

Requirement to Obtain a License for Petroleum or Petroleum Product Service Activities
17. (a) Regarding the activities of providing petroleum or petroleum product services, the following activities require a license from the Authority or a party designated by the Authority.
(1) Conducting research and surveys to explore for petroleum or petroleum products, extracting, refining, importing, exporting, re-exporting petroleum, storing for commercial purposes, and providing transportation services from one place to another;
(2) Trading petroleum or a petroleum product on a wholesale or retail basis;
(3) Operating vehicles for the service of transporting petroleum or a petroleum product from one place to another; and
(4) Driving vehicles that provide the service of transporting petroleum or a petroleum product from one place to another.
(b) Licenses for selling petroleum or a petroleum product wholesale and retail at the island level shall be issued by the island council office. And in cities, by the city council office.
(c) The license mentioned in subsection (b) of this Article shall be issued by the council in accordance with the principles determined by the Authority.
(d) It is prohibited to carry out the activities specified in subsection (a) of this Article without a license issued by the Authority.

Issuing a License
18. (a) An application for a license for the activities mentioned in Article 17 of this Act shall be submitted in accordance with the principles determined by the Authority.
(b) Within a maximum of 30 (thirty) days from the date of application for a license, a decision shall be made in one of the ways specified below and the applicant shall be notified.
(1) To issue the license; or
(2) Not to issue the license.
(c) If a decision is made not to issue a license as per number (2) of subsection (b) of this Article, the reason for the decision shall be notified to the applicant in writing.
(d) A fee may be charged to the Authority for issuing and renewing a license in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
(e) Any change or amendment to a license issued for providing petroleum or a petroleum product service can only be made by the Authority in accordance with the principles established for it.

Matters to be Considered When Deciding on Licensing
19. When deciding whether to issue or not to issue a license for an activity involving petroleum or a petroleum product, the Authority shall consider the following matters.
(a) The social and cultural issues that may arise for the population of the area where the work is conducted due to that work;
(b) Potential damages to the environment, and the effects it may have on international treaties and agreements to which the Maldives is a party;
(c) The potential effects on the economy of the Maldives;
(d) The cost of the work, and how the financing arrangements for the work are arranged;
(e) How safety and security measures are arranged for carrying out the work;
(f) The extent of the technical and financial capability of the license applicant; and
(g) Other important matters deemed necessary by the Authority.

Information to be Included in the License
20. When issuing a license for the provision of petroleum or petroleum product services, the following information shall be included.
(a) The period for which the license is issued;
(b) The purpose and limits for which the license is granted;
(c) The area where the work is permitted to be carried out;
(d) The environmental, health, and safety conditions that the licensee must comply with;
(e) The penalties for violating the terms of the license; and
(f) The minimum stock level to be maintained.

License Renewal
21. (a) An application for license renewal must be submitted to the Authority or a party designated by the Authority 30 (thirty) days before the license expires.
(b) If the Authority is satisfied that no condition of the license has been violated, and if the application for renewal is submitted before the license expires, the license shall be renewed.
(c) If a decision is made not to renew a license upon application for renewal after its expiry, the reason for this shall be notified in writing to the license applicant.
(d) If the reason for not renewing the license is not acceptable, the licensee has the right to submit the matter to the Authority's board within 30 (thirty) days. And if the board's decision is not acceptable, it can be submitted to a Maldivian court of law within 60 (sixty) days of that decision.

Display of License
22. (a) A license issued under this chapter must be displayed in a easily visible manner at the official office of the licensee. This does not include the days when the license is submitted to the Authority for various purposes.
(b) It is prohibited not to display the license in a publicly visible manner.

Revocation of License
23. The Authority has the discretion to revoke a license issued to a party providing petroleum or a petroleum product service if one of the following reasons occurs.
(a) The activity for which the license was granted has not started by the expiry date of the license or the extended period;
(b) Violation of the conditions under which the license was issued; or
(c) The licensee goes bankrupt or the company is dissolved.

Issuing a Copy of the License
24. If a license issued by the Authority is lost or damaged and an application is made for a new copy of the license, a new copy of the previously issued license shall be issued upon payment of a specified fee in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

Transfer of License Rights
25. (a) A right granted under a license issued to any party under this Act cannot be transferred to another party without the permission of the issuing authority.
(b) If an application is made to transfer a license issued to any party under this Act to another party, that license may be transferred to another party in the following circumstances.
(1) If the person to whom the license is issued dies, the heirs of the licensee request the transfer of the license to their name;
(2) In the event that the licensee goes bankrupt and their rights are transferred to another party, the party to whom the rights are transferred requests it; or
(3) If the rights of the licensee are sold or given to another party, the party who received the rights requests it.
(c) The Authority must ensure that the party to whom the license is transferred is a party that meets the legal, financial, and technical requirements to obtain the license.

Permit for Construction or Building
26. (a) Before starting the construction of a pipeline for supplying petroleum or a petroleum product, or a refinery for petroleum or a petroleum product, or a place for storing a large quantity of petroleum or a petroleum product, or a place for selling petroleum or a petroleum product wholesale or retail, a permit must be obtained from the Authority or a party designated by the Authority. When applying for the permit, the following information must be submitted.
(1) Information requested by the Authority from the permit applicant;
(2) Copies of documents and certificates proving ownership;
(3) Land development permit;
(4) Approved detailed drawings of the building to be constructed;
(5) If a pipeline is being laid, the pipeline layout plan and details of the products to be supplied via the pipeline;
(6) If it is a place for refining petroleum or a petroleum product, or a place for storing a large quantity of petroleum or a petroleum product, a chart of the area where the place is being built and project information;
(7) A document approving the Environmental Impact Assessment report; and
(8) Other information determined by the Authority to be necessary.
(b) If all documents required for the permit application and all required conditions are met, a decision on granting the permit shall be made within 30 (thirty) days of the application.
(c) If a decision is made not to grant a permit under subsection (b) of this Article, the reason for not granting it shall be stated and notified to the applicant in writing.
(d) Applications for permits under this Article and all matters concerning the issuance of permits shall be handled by the Local Council with jurisdiction over that area, in the manner prescribed by the Authority.

Exemption from Obtaining a Permit
27. Unless otherwise stated in this Act, a permit is not required in the following situations.
(a) Having to provide petroleum or a petroleum product service temporarily in an emergency situation by laying a temporary pipe or by any other means; or
(b) When a party licensed to provide petroleum or a petroleum product service needs to replace a part of a pipeline they have laid.

Lapsing of Permit
28. (a) If work does not commence within 12 (twelve) months under a permit granted for laying a petroleum or petroleum product pipeline, or for storing such items in large quantities, or for constructing a place to sell petroleum or a petroleum product, the permit will lapse.
(b) If a permit lapses as stated in subsection (a) of this Article, a new permit will be issued only after paying a fine determined by the Authority and submitting a new application for it.

Demolition of Illegally Constructed Structures
29. (a) It is prohibited for any party to lay a petroleum or petroleum product pipeline, or to build a place for storing such items in large quantities, or for selling petroleum or a petroleum product, without obtaining a permit under this Act. And the Authority has the discretion to act against such a party in one of the following two ways, in addition to fining them.
(1) To order the owner not to proceed further with the work; or
(2) To order the demolition of that place.
(b) If the work done without a permit is not demolished within the period given in the order, the Authority or a party designated by the Authority may demolish that place. And the party who carried out the work without a permit shall be responsible for the cost incurred.

Maintaining the Quality of Petroleum and Petroleum Products
30. (a) Within 6 (six) months of the commencement of this Act, the Authority shall publish in the Government of Maldives Gazette the standards for petroleum or petroleum products sold wholesale and retail in the Maldives, as well as those imported and stored in the Maldives.
(b) Petroleum or petroleum products sold wholesale and retail in the Maldives, as well as those imported and stored in the Maldives, must be products that meet the standards accepted by the Authority.
(c) It is prohibited under this Act to import, wholesale, sell, and store petroleum or petroleum products in the Maldives that do not meet the standards set by the Authority.

Maintaining Stock Levels
31. Parties licensed to import petroleum or a petroleum product must maintain the minimum stock level specified in the service permit and maintain the stock at that standard.

Providing Service
32. (a) Parties licensed to provide the public service of selling petroleum or petroleum products must provide the service and sell the goods publicly, equitably, without discrimination to any party, and with fairness.
(b) Within 90 (ninety) days of the commencement of this Act, in consultation with the relevant parties, the Authority shall publish in the Government of Maldives Gazette the standards that must be met in places where petroleum or petroleum products are sold to the public.

Attention to Environmental Protection, Public Health, and Public Safety
33. (a) Parties trading in petroleum or petroleum products must fully comply with the requirements under other laws and regulations for protecting the environment, public health, and for the safety of people, property, and assets.
(b) In the course of transporting, selling, or storing petroleum or a petroleum product, if an incident of spillage and contamination of the environment occurs, whether intentionally or by accident, the owner of that substance shall be responsible for the incident. And the contaminated area must be cleaned to a standard acceptable to the relevant government authorities and the Authority.
(c) Parties transporting, storing, and selling petroleum or petroleum products wholesale and retail must have a plan on how to act in a situation where the petroleum they handle is released into the environment.
(d) In a situation described in subsection (c) of this Article, if the environment is contaminated and the responsible party does not clean the contaminated area, the Authority or a party designated by the Authority has the discretion to clean the area, with the cost to be borne by the responsible party.
(e) This Act does not prevent seeking compensation under another law from the party responsible for the damage caused to the environment by a petroleum or petroleum product spill.
(f) Parties supplying petroleum or petroleum products from one place to another, whether by land, sea, air, or pipeline, must do so with the necessary safety measures. The safety standards to be followed in this regard shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.
(g) When issuing licenses to parties providing petroleum or petroleum product services, and to parties supplying petroleum or petroleum products from one place to another, the Authority shall consider the extent of their capability to take necessary safety measures. And the Authority has the discretion to inspect, whenever it deems necessary, how the service providers have arranged their safety measures.

Designating Special Areas for Vehicles Transporting Petroleum or Petroleum Products
34. (a) A relevant state authority shall designate special areas on land and in the harbor for parking vehicles that transport petroleum or petroleum products.
(b) Once the areas mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article have been designated, it is prohibited to park a vehicle outside of that area.

Entry of Vehicles Transporting Petroleum or Petroleum Products into the Territory of the Maldives
35. (a) Within 12 (twelve) months of the commencement of this Act, the Ministry, in consultation with relevant parties, shall formulate and gazette regulations on the safety of petroleum or petroleum products carried by vehicles entering the territories of the Maldives.
(b) Within the Exclusive Economic Zone of the Maldives and within the Continental Shelf area, the following acts are prohibited under this Act.
(1) Disposing of water mixed with petroleum or a petroleum product;
(2) Disposing of water used to wash tanks containing petroleum or a petroleum product;
(3) Disposing of water used to wash petroleum or petroleum product pipes; and
(4) Disposing of sand used for drying petroleum or a petroleum product.
(c) If any of the incidents listed in subsection (b) of this Article occurs, it is the responsibility of the party who committed the act to clean that place. And that party shall be responsible for the cost incurred.

Chapter Five
Electricity Generation and Supply

Rights of Electricity Generators and Suppliers and Electricity Service Recipients
36. (a) Parties that generate and supply electricity have the following rights.
(1) To provide electricity services in accordance with laws and regulations;
(2) To charge a price for the electricity service, in accordance with laws and regulations;
(3) To interrupt the electricity service, in accordance with laws and regulations; and
(4) To have the opportunity to carry out the work necessary for the uninterrupted supply of electricity service.
(b) Parties that receive electricity service have the following rights.
(1) To receive uninterrupted electricity service at an adequate standard;
(2) For the price paid for electricity service to be fair, transparent, and reasonable; and
(3) For matters such as services sought from electricity providers, or service interruptions, to be resolved within a reasonable period.

Generating and Providing Electricity Service
37. (a) No party shall generate electricity for commercial purposes in the Maldives or provide electricity service through a network except after obtaining a license issued for that purpose by the Authority in a manner determined by the Authority. And it is prohibited to do such an act without a license.
(b) The permits required and conditions to be fulfilled for establishing and developing an electricity system, or a part of it, shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Licensing for Providing Electricity Service
38. (a) An application for a license to generate electricity or to supply electricity through a network shall be submitted in accordance with the principles specified in the regulations made under this Act.
(b) To grant a permit for providing electricity service as a public service, the Authority shall issue a license after publicly opening it for bidding in accordance with the regulations made under this Act, and after selecting the party that submits the best proposal from among the applicants.
(c) Notwithstanding what is stated in subsection (b) of this Article, this Article does not prevent the granting of a permit to provide electricity service to a government company or a company with a majority government share, without bidding, in accordance with Law No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act) and regulations made thereunder.
(d) A license issued for providing electricity service shall state the following matters.
(1) The services permitted under the license;
(2) The principles for determining the price of electricity;
(3) The conditions of the license;
(4) The service area;
(5) The duration of the license; and
(6) The matters reviewed and approved by the Authority for issuing the license and the date of their approval.
(e) The Authority may specify additional conditions related to the provision of service in the license for providing electricity service under this Article.
(f) Activities conducted under a license issued under this Act shall be conducted in accordance with the relevant regulations determined by the Ministry.

Responsibility of the Electricity Provider
39. It is the responsibility of the party to whom the license is issued to do the following under the license granted for providing electricity.
(a) To establish, operate, and maintain an electricity supply system that is feasible in terms of cost and technical aspects, in a manner compliant with the regulations made under this Act;
(b) To arrange for the service to be available without any discrimination among the service recipients, as long as the electricity service users pay the price regularly;
(c) To maintain and provide the statistics and information required to be provided to the Authority under this Act or regulations made under this Act;
(d) To identify changes in electricity demand and to develop and maintain the electricity system to a level appropriate for the demand;
(e) To maintain and sustain the safety aspects of the electricity system to the standard determined by the Authority;
(f) To minimize service disruption during natural and other disasters and emergency situations, to ensure safety and security, and to formulate and maintain a robust system for acting in such situations; and
(g) To reduce wastage, improve procurement and financial matters, and overall, to maintain the service provider's financial affairs in a sound manner in order to provide sustainable service.

Providing Service to the Vulnerable
40. (a) In enforcing the powers vested in service providers, arrangements for lenient options must be made for the vulnerable people living in the service area in connecting the service, disconnecting the service, and in bill payment.
(b) The register of vulnerable people mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be maintained by the National Social Protection Agency, through the local council of each island.

Monitoring the Electricity System
41. (a) The Authority shall monitor whether service providers are generating and supplying electricity commensurate with the demand in electricity generation and supply, the quality of service, the amount supplied, the cost of generation and supply, the price sold at, the amount of renewable energy generated and used, and the efficiency of the system.
(b) If, during the monitoring by the Authority under subsection (a) of this Article, a matter is identified that needs to be rectified by the service provider, the Authority shall instruct the service provider to rectify it.
(c) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this Article, the details of the matters to be looked at by the Authority when monitoring the efficiency of the electricity system and the method of monitoring shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Power to Enter, Inspect, Search, and Investigate Places
42. (a) For the purpose of enforcing this Act or a regulation made under this Act, if the Authority deems it necessary to inspect a place providing an electricity service with a license from the Authority, it has the power to enter, inspect, take photographs, record video and audio, and take copies of records of such places, after giving written notice to that party and in the presence of a representative of that party.
(b) Any information requested by the Authority regarding the quality of service provided by licensed parties must be provided to the Authority by the licensed party.
(c) A person coming to inspect on behalf of the Authority as specified in subsection (a) of this Article must show a document indicating that they are a person appointed by the Authority.
(d) It is prohibited for any person to obstruct the work of persons coming to inspect and search under this Article.
(e) If the owner or operator of a place does not grant permission or consent for entry to inspect under this Article, the Authority has the power to apply to the relevant court for a court order to enter that place to perform its duties under this Act.

Giving Instructions in Special Circumstances
43. (a) If a special situation arises, the Authority has the discretion to give instructions to the institutions that generate and supply electricity on how to act in providing the service.
(b) For the purpose of this Article, a special situation refers to situations such as a threat to national security or public safety, or the occurrence of a disaster.

Charging for Electricity Service
44. (a) The maximum price that can be charged for electricity service provided in inhabited islands shall be determined by the Authority in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
(b) No money shall be charged for an electricity service provided in inhabited islands except in the manner specified in the regulations made under this Act.
(c) The maximum price that can be charged for electricity service in every inhabited island in the Maldives, as specified in subsection (a) of this Article, shall be publicly announced. And changes in the price shall be regularly made public.
(d) In determining a fair and reasonable price for the service as specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the following matters shall be considered.
(1) The cost incurred for generating and supplying electricity;
(2) Changes in the price of oil in the world market;
(3) The proportion of renewable energy in the generated and supplied electricity;
(4) The cost to be incurred for the sustainable continuation of the electricity service;
(5) The general living conditions; and
(6) The impact of the established principles on low-income individuals, and the manner in which assistance is arranged for such individuals by the state.
(e) A provider of electricity service shall change the selling price of electricity only after submitting it to the Authority and obtaining the Authority's permission, in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
(f) In relation to submissions made to the Authority to change the selling price of electricity under subsection (b) of this Article, the Authority shall make a decision regarding the submission and notify the applicant within a maximum of 45 (forty-five) days from the date of submission.
(g) Any change to the price of electricity service must be notified to the service consumers in writing 1 (one) month in advance.
(h) It is prohibited to charge any price for an electricity service other than the price specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Applying for Service and Paying the Price
45. (a) A person applying for electricity service shall apply to the party licensed under this Act to provide electricity service to the area where the service is desired.
(b) An agreement stating the conditions under which the service will be provided to the recipient of the electricity service and the way the price of the service is determined shall be signed by the service provider and the service recipient.
(c) The person using the service shall regularly pay the price of the service to the service provider in accordance with the agreement mentioned in subsection (b) of this Article.
(d) If the recipient of the electricity service does not pay the price of the service within the agreed period, the service provider has the right to impose a fine approved by the Authority and to temporarily interrupt the service.
(e) The electricity service shall be disconnected for non-payment of the price for the provided service only after all possible measures have been taken and there is no other option. The measures to be taken for non-payment of the price of electricity service shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Maintaining Service Quality
46. No discrimination in terms of service quality shall be practiced towards any particular party in the provision of electricity service.

Persons Who Carry Out Electrical Work
47. (a) Electrical work can only be carried out by parties authorized by the Authority.
(b) Within 12 (twelve) months of the commencement of this Act, the Ministry shall formulate and publicize a regulation for parties wishing to carry out electrical work to follow.
(c) The regulation formulated under subsection (b) of this Article shall specify the qualifications that persons carrying out electrical work must have, the period for which the work permit will be issued, and the procedures for renewing and revoking the permit.
(d) The Authority shall publicize a list of parties authorized to carry out electrical work under this Article. And changes to the list shall be updated and maintained in a publicly visible manner.
(e) Parties who have been granted permission to carry out electrical work under another law or regulation before the commencement of this Act shall apply for a new permit within 12 (twelve) months of the commencement of the regulation made under this Act, in the manner specified in the regulation made under this Act, by submitting to the Authority.
(f) It is prohibited for any party other than a party authorized under this Article to carry out electrical work.

Refusing or Interrupting Electricity Service
48. Except in the event of one of the following situations, an electricity service provider shall not, at its discretion, refuse to provide electricity to any service recipient or interrupt the service.
(a) The service consumer fails to pay the fee payable to the service provider as agreed;
(b) If there is a matter that the electricity service recipient is obliged to rectify as agreed, and that matter is not rectified even after being notified in writing;
(c) The use of electricity contrary to the agreed manner causes a negative impact on the electricity supplied by the service provider or creates a situation that could pose a danger to the public;
(d) The service consumer obstructs the service provider when they wish to enter the premises where electricity is installed to inspect a matter related to electricity;
(e) A competent state authority issues an order to demolish or dismantle the place or part of the place where electricity is installed;
(f) An electricity generation system is used in connection with the electricity grid without the permission of the service provider;
(g) The service consumer, without the permission of the service provider, commits an act of misuse of electricity as described in Article 62 of this Act;
(h) A situation arises beyond the control of the electricity service provider (due to a natural or other event) that could pose a danger to the service user or the public; or
(i) One of the 2 situations specified in Article 49(a) of this Act occurs.

Temporary Interruption of Electricity Service
49. (a) The electricity service provided may be temporarily interrupted from a specific house or a specific area in the following situations.
(1) For the purpose of improving the quality of service; or
(2) For the purpose of repairing a damage to the electricity system.
(b) If the service is temporarily interrupted for the purpose of improving service quality or repairing damage to the system, the service consumers shall be given 24 hours' notice before the service interruption.
(c) The service provider shall work to provide the electricity service as soon as possible, earlier than the time stated in the notice issued under subsection (b) of this Article for the resumption of the electricity service.

Sudden Service Interruption Beyond Control
50. (a) It is the responsibility of the service provider to maintain the electricity system adequately and to identify and rectify issues that need correction before a problem occurs, in order to prevent sudden interruptions of the provided electricity service.
(b) The Authority shall determine and notify the service provider of the procedures to be followed in regularly maintaining the resources used in providing the service to prevent sudden interruptions of electricity service, and the Authority shall ensure that these procedures are being implemented.
(c) Notwithstanding what is stated in this Article, in a situation of a sudden interruption of electricity service, the service provider shall formulate a procedure to be followed, and the Authority shall approve that procedure. And in such a situation, the Authority shall ensure that the service provider acts in accordance with the formulated procedure.

Damaging Electricity Service Facilities and Obstructing Work
51. It is prohibited to intentionally damage the facilities and services of an electricity service provider and to commit any act of obstructing the provision of service. For the purpose of this Act, such an act shall be considered:
(a) Obstructing the work of the service provider, and damaging or altering its property;
(b) Stealing property of the service provider;
(c) Entering without permission into areas of the service provider's premises and buildings where public access is prohibited; or
(d) Damaging the infrastructure established for providing service and other such items.

Obstructing Electricity Service Providers from Entering Places to Work
52. It is prohibited for any person, without a reasonable cause, to obstruct a party authorized to provide electricity service or its employee from entering a place to carry out work related to electricity, from carrying out necessary work, or from bringing or taking away an item under its ownership.

Designating a Special Area for an Energy Resource
53. (a) If an area within the territory of the Maldives is identified as an area rich in energy resources, the Minister has the power, in consultation with relevant government authorities, to designate that area as a "Special Area for Energy Resource".
(b) If a particular area is designated as a Special Area for Energy Resource under subsection (a) of this Article, its geographic coordinates and the boundaries of the area shall be marked on a chart and published in the Government of Maldives Gazette.
(c) Once an area has been designated as a Special Area for Energy Resource, that area shall not be used for any other purpose without the permission of the Ministry.
(d) If an area designated as a Special Area for Energy Resource is an area under the ownership or custody of another party, no action that may cause further change to that area shall be taken without the permission of the Ministry.

Ownership of Electricity Infrastructure, Equipment, and Items
54. (a) The infrastructure developed and the equipment and items installed by a party licensed to provide service for the purpose of establishing electricity facilities, in accordance with relevant regulations, are the property of the service provider, even if they are located on land or in a building under the ownership of another party.
(b) Notwithstanding what is stated in subsection (a) of this Article, this Article shall not apply to equipment and items for which the service consumer has paid in full to obtain the electricity service.

Chapter Six
Energy Conservation and Efficient Use

Practical Project for Energy Conservation and Energy Efficiency
55. In consultation with all relevant parties, the Ministry shall formulate and begin implementing a practical project to promote energy conservation and the use of energy in a cost-effective manner within 6 (six) months of the commencement of this Act. And the Ministry has the discretion to make any changes to that project that it deems necessary, considering the time and circumstances.

Obtaining, Providing, and Maintaining Information
56. (a) To determine whether energy is being used with reduced wastage, the Authority may order the owner of a place using energy to provide relevant information.
(b) It is the responsibility of the owners of buildings, factories, tourist hotels, and resorts to obtain, collect, and maintain information and records regarding the reduction of energy wastage and the extent of efficient energy use, in accordance with the regulations established by the Authority.
(c) It is prohibited not to maintain records of information as specified in subsection (b) of this Article.

Formulating Regulations and Standards for Energy Use
57. (a) The Ministry shall formulate and publicize regulations and standards to be followed in reducing energy wastage and using energy efficiently, including the following areas.
(1) Standards for energy-generating equipment and standards for electricity-consuming appliances;
(2) Standards for grading energy-consuming appliances;
(3) Prohibiting the production, import into the Maldives, and use of appliances of a grade lower than a certain standard;
(4) Standards for affixing the level of energy wastage reduction and efficient energy use on appliances;
(5) Standards for classifying and grading buildings, factories, tourist hotels, and resorts to disclose their level of energy wastage reduction and efficient energy use;
(6) The qualifications that energy auditors must have, and the standards and procedures to be followed in conducting energy audits; and
(7) Standards for reducing energy wastage and for efficient energy use in buildings.
(b) The Authority has the discretion, after reviewing whether parties generating and using energy are complying with the standards specified in subsection (a) of this Article, if it finds that a matter needs to be rectified, to order that party to rectify it within a reasonable period determined by the Authority, considering the magnitude of the matter and in consultation with both parties. It is prohibited not to rectify a matter ordered by the Authority for rectification within that period.

Issuing an Energy Efficiency Certificate
58. (a) If a party using energy uses energy better than the standard set by the Ministry, and if such a party applies for a certificate of good energy use, the Authority has the discretion to issue an "Energy Efficiency Certificate" for it.
(b) The details regarding the benefits accruing to a party that receives the "Energy Efficiency Certificate" mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.
(c) The Ministry shall formulate and publicize the procedures for applying for the certificate mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article, revoking the certificate, and determining the administrative fee for the certificate.

Appointing Energy Auditors
59. (a) The Authority has the power to appoint auditors in the energy sector.
(b) The qualifications, standards, and experience that parties appointed as energy auditors must have, and the procedures for registering as an energy auditor, shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.
(c) The Authority shall maintain a register of parties appointed as energy auditors.

Ordering an Energy Audit
60. (a) From among the parties using energy services, a party that uses more than 100 (one hundred) kilowatt-hours of energy per month, classified based on the rate of energy use, may be ordered to conduct an energy audit within a reasonable period deemed appropriate by the Authority.
(b) The audit mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be conducted in accordance with the standards accepted by the Ministry. And those standards shall be formulated and publicized by the Ministry.
(c) An energy audit mentioned in this Act shall be accepted by the Authority only if it is signed by an auditor registered in the Authority's register.

Annual Energy Report
61. (a) Parties licensed to provide energy services shall, within each financial year, prepare an annual report containing important information such as how the activities in the energy sector have progressed, how energy is managed, and how it is used, and submit it to the Authority and make it public within the first 2 (two) months of the following financial year.
(b) In addition to other matters determined by the Authority, the report shall include the following sections.
(1) Work done to strengthen administrative management;
(2) Work done to reduce energy wastage;
(3) Work done to promote renewable energy; and
(4) Work done to make the price of service more affordable.

Misuse of Electricity
62. Misuse of electricity is prohibited. For the purpose of this Act, misuse of electricity shall be considered:
(a) Using electricity for a purpose other than the purpose for which it was supplied, contrary to the agreement made between the electricity service provider and the service recipient, and allowing another party to use electricity;
(b) Connecting any device to, disconnecting a part from, making a change to, damaging, or facilitating such an act on the electricity grid established by the party licensed to provide electricity, without the permission of the electricity service provider;
(c) The service consumer providing electricity to another person or place outside the licensed service area, without the permission of the service provider;
(d) Theft, embezzlement, fraud, deceit, or trickery involving electricity or the components and resources used to generate electricity, using the service in an unauthorized manner or obtaining benefits, or selling electricity to another party without the permission of the electricity service provider; or
(e) Using the service from a place where the service has been interrupted by the service provider, without the permission of the service provider.

Chapter Seven
Transitional Provisions

Previously Issued Permits
63. Permits issued to various parties in the field of providing energy services before the commencement of this Act shall remain valid until their expiry date, as long as they are not revoked under this Act. And after the expiry of such a permit, a new permit will be issued only in accordance with the principles specified in this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

Previous Laws and Regulations
64. The laws and regulations in the energy sector formulated and being implemented before the commencement of this Act shall continue to be implemented until the relevant regulations required to be formulated under this Act are formulated and made public.

Chapter Eight
Miscellaneous

Priority for Maldivian Products
65. Among the equipment, items, and resources used for generating and supplying electricity, priority shall be given in the work related to electricity under this Act to products made in the Maldives, if such products meet the standards accepted by the Authority, and after considering the quality and price of the product.

Priority for Maldivian Companies and Maldivians
66. In recruiting for jobs in the energy sector, priority shall be given to qualified Maldivians. And in awarding projects and works, priority shall be given to qualified Maldivians and Maldivian companies.

Maintaining Confidentiality
67. The confidentiality of information that must be kept confidential among the information shared by a service provider with the Authority or the Ministry shall be maintained.

Non-discrimination in Providing Service
68. In enforcing the powers vested under this Act, no party shall be given priority to provide an unfair advantage, and no action shall be taken to the detriment of any party.

Providing Information on Accidents and Disasters
69. (a) If a disaster or an accident causing harm to a person, a place, or the environment occurs in the course of carrying out any work in the field of electricity generation and supply within the economic zone of the Maldives, or in the course of providing electricity service, information about it shall be immediately provided to the Authority.
(b) The Authority shall establish and publicize a procedure on how the information mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article can be provided.
(c) If an accident or disaster as mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article occurs, and the Authority deems it necessary to further investigate the matter, the Authority has the discretion to investigate it. And after the Authority investigates the matter, if it finds that a matter needs to be corrected or action needs to be taken, the Authority has the discretion to give advice and instructions to correct the matter or take action, in consultation with the relevant parties and in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

Additional Fee Payable by the Service Provider
70. An additional fee, other than the fee payable under this Act and the regulations made under this Act, can be charged from a party licensed to provide service under this Act by another party only with the permission of the Authority.

No Individual Liability
71. (a) If the service provider is an institution or a company, an employee of that institution shall not be held individually responsible for any damage incurred or for a lawsuit filed in connection with such a matter while performing their duties in the enforcement of this Act and the regulations made under this Act. In such cases, the responsibility shall be borne by that institution or that company.
(b) Notwithstanding what is stated in subsection (a) of this Article, an employee shall be responsible for any damage caused by their negligence or for a crime they committed.

Taking Action
72. Unless otherwise stated in this Act, the administrative penalties specified in this Article shall be imposed on parties who violate this Act.
(a) For committing the act specified in Article 17(d) of this Act, a fine of an amount between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand), depending on the nature of the act and the frequency of its repetition;
(b) For committing the act specified in Article 22(b) of this Act, a fine as follows;
(1) MVR 5,000 (five thousand) for the first time;
(2) MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) for the second time; and
(3) MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) will be added for each time the act is repeated more than twice.
(c) For committing the act specified in Article 29(a) of this Act, that party shall be fined MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand);
(d) For committing the act specified in Article 30(c) of this Act, that party shall be fined MVR 1,000,000 (one million) and the permit issued to that party by the Authority shall be revoked;
(e) For committing the act specified in Article 34(b) of this Act, the party who parked such a vehicle outside the designated parking area shall be fined an amount between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand), depending on the severity of the matter;
(f) For committing an act specified in Article 35(b) of this Act, the party who committed the act shall be fined an amount not exceeding MVR 100,000,000 (one hundred million), depending on the severity of the matter;
(g) The penalty for a party providing electricity service without the permit or license of the Authority as specified in Article 37 of this Act is a fine of an amount not exceeding MVR 1,000,000 (one million);
(h) The penalty for obstructing the work of a person coming to check on behalf of the Authority as specified in Article 42(d) of this Act is a fine of an amount not exceeding MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) for the person who committed the offense;
(i) If any price is charged for electricity service outside the specified price, as stated in Article 44(h) of this Act, that party shall be fined an amount between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 30,000 (thirty thousand);
(j) The penalty for a person who commits an act like the one specified in Article 47(f) of this Act is a fine of an amount not exceeding MVR 10,000 (ten thousand);
(k) The penalty for a person who commits an act like the one specified in Article 51 of this Act is a fine of an amount between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand), depending on the severity of the damage;
(l) The penalty for a person who commits an act like the one specified in Article 52 of this Act is a fine of an amount not exceeding MVR 5,000 (five thousand) for that person, depending on the severity of the matter;
(m) The penalty for a party that does not maintain information as specified in Article 56(c) of this Act is a fine of an amount not exceeding MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand);
(n) For a party that has not rectified a matter within the period given by the Authority for rectification as specified in Article 57(b) of this Act, a fine of an amount not exceeding MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand) for that party, depending on the severity of the matter;
(o) The penalty for a person who commits an act like the one specified in Article 62 of this Act is a fine of an amount not exceeding MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand) for that person, depending on the severity of the matter;
(p) A person who intentionally misleads and provides false information when providing information to the Authority or the Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry and the Authority shall be fined an amount not exceeding MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand); and
(q) If, upon a request for information by the Ministry or the Authority, that information is not provided without a reasonable cause within the period requested by the Ministry or the Authority, the penalty for such a party is a fine of an amount not exceeding MVR 5,000 (five thousand).

Criminal Prosecution
73. Notwithstanding what is stated in Article 72 of this Act, if an act committed by any party in violation of this Act and the regulations made under this Act constitutes a criminal offense, the Authority shall submit the matter to the relevant authorities for investigation.

Additional Fine for Non-payment of Penalty
74. If the fine imposed under Article 72 of this Act is not paid within the period specified, the fine will then be accepted with an additional amount calculated at the rate of MVR 100 (one hundred) for each additional day that passes.

Right of Parties Subject to Action
75. Among the parties against whom the Authority takes action for a violation of this Act or a regulation made under this Act, those who are dissatisfied with the action taken by the Authority have the right to submit the matter to a competent court within 30 (thirty) days.

Making Regulations
76. (a) Unless otherwise specified in this Act, all regulations required to be made under this Act shall be made by the Ministry.
(b) The regulations required to be made under this Act shall be made and publicly published within a maximum of 12 (twelve) months from the date this Act comes into force.

Commencement of Operation
77. This Act shall come into force from the date of its publication in the Government of Maldives Gazette.

Repealed Law
78. With the commencement of this Act, Law No. 4/96 (Public Utilities Act) is hereby repealed.

Definitions
79. Unless the context in which a phrase or word is used in this Act explicitly requires another meaning, the following phrases and words shall have the meanings given below.
(a) "Service area" means the area authorized for providing energy services under a license issued under this Act.
(b) "Authority" means the "Utility Regulatory Authority" established under Law No. 26/2020 (Utility Regulatory Authority Act).
(c) "Ministry" means the government ministry to which the responsibility of determining policies for the energy sector is assigned at the time.
(d) "Minister" means the minister of the government ministry to which the responsibility of determining policies for the energy sector is assigned at the time.
(e) "Energy" means electricity, petroleum resources extracted from underground, petroleum products, gas, geothermal heat, nuclear materials, energy generated or produced from the decomposition of biological matter, waste generated by human or natural means, solar radiation, wind, waves, currents, and tides.
(f) "Electrical work" means electrical works including wiring, panel design and installation, distribution network design and installation, generator installation, and similar activities.
(g) "Vehicle transporting petroleum or petroleum products" means land and sea vehicles that contain special conditions determined by the Authority and have a permit issued by the Authority to transport petroleum or a petroleum product.
(h) "Petroleum product" means any product made from petroleum or containing some amount of petroleum, which can be used to produce light, heat, or energy, or for any other use that can be made of petroleum.
(i) "License" means a license/permit and a temporary license/permit issued by the Authority to provide energy services under this Act.
(j) "Energy sector" means all matters related to the generation, supply, and use of energy.
(k) "Adequate standard" means providing service in a manner that meets the standards determined by the Authority.
(l) "Reasonable price" means a price determined in line with government policy, considering the cost of providing the service and the financial capacity of the service recipients.
(m) "Storage and safekeeping" means storing in large quantities in a vehicle or a place, and other methods of warehousing and safekeeping.
