Maldives Fisheries Act

Chapter One
Introduction and Name

1. Title

(a) This is an Act that sets out the principles and rules for the sustainable management of fisheries resources and their environment within the maritime zones of the Maldives, the control of all fishing activities conducted by any party within the maritime zones of the Maldives, the control of fishing activities conducted by Maldivians outside the maritime zones of the Maldives, and the promotion, development, operation, and management of the Maldivian fisheries and aquaculture industry.

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Maldives Fisheries Act."

2. Objectives

(a) The main objectives of this Act are stated below.

(1) To facilitate the sustainable use of the fisheries resources of the Maldives and their environment in order to pass them on to future generations;

(2) To establish a framework for the protection, management, and administration of the fisheries resources of the Maldives and their environment in accordance with the principles of equity and good governance;

(3) To develop, operate, and manage the aquaculture industry by establishing a comprehensive system and to facilitate economic development;

(4) To establish principles for the prevention of illegal, unregulated, and unreported (IUU) fishing;

(5) To establish the legal framework for the implementation of measures required by the Maldives to fulfill its obligations under international treaties to which the Maldives is a party concerning fisheries and fishing;

(6) To recognize the value of fishers and to assist those working in the fisheries industry in obtaining a good income and profit;

(7) To establish a register of fishers, protect their rights, and ensure their social protection and pension;

(8) To familiarize youth with fisheries and encourage them to enter the fisheries sector;

(9) To promote and facilitate the equal participation of both genders in the fisheries industry;

(10) To facilitate opportunities for Maldivian fishers to fish outside the maritime zones of the Maldives and to create opportunities for Maldivian fishing vessels to go abroad and sell fish in foreign markets;

(11) To facilitate the establishment of household-level fish factories on islands in collaboration with local councils and private parties;

(12) To identify areas for Maldivian fishing, and to create opportunities for the establishment of offshore platforms; and

(13) To facilitate the expansion of the business of building fishing vessels and boats in the Maldives.

Chapter Two
Administration of the Act

3. Responsibilities of the Ministry

(a) In accordance with this Act, the primary responsibility for planning, managing, administering, and developing the fisheries resources of the Maldives and their environment within the maritime zones of the Maldives in a sustainable manner is vested in the Ministry.

(b) It is the responsibility of the Ministry to make and enforce regulations regarding fishing and fisheries-related activities conducted within the maritime zones of the Maldives.

(c) It is the responsibility of the Ministry to make and enforce regulations, in accordance with international law, regarding fishing and fisheries-related activities conducted by Maldivian citizens outside the maritime zones of the Maldives.

(d) The Ministry shall establish and enforce the necessary legal framework to promote, manage, administer, and coordinate all aquaculture-related activities conducted within the maritime and land areas of the Maldives.

(e) The Ministry shall represent the Government of the Maldives in all matters relating to domestic, regional, and international treaties, agreements, arrangements, and organizations concerning fisheries, fisheries-related activities, aquaculture, and other matters falling within the scope of this Act, both within and outside the maritime zones of the Maldives. The Ministry shall implement such agreements and arrangements in accordance with the laws of the Maldives.

(f) The Ministry is empowered to formulate and implement policies, regulations, and principles concerning the following matters:

(1) Managing and administering the fisheries resources and their environment within the maritime zones of the Maldives;

(2) Conserving the fisheries resources and their environments within the maritime zones of the Maldives in a manner most beneficial to Maldivians, based on the precautionary and ecosystem approaches;

(3) Promoting sustainable fisheries and aquaculture; and

(4) Administering fishing and fisheries-related activities conducted by Maldivian citizens outside the maritime zones of the Maldives and establishing and implementing relevant policies, regulations, and principles.

4. Scope of the Act

(a) This Act shall apply within and outside the maritime zones of the Maldives as specified in this Article.

(1) Within the maritime zones of the Maldives, this Act shall apply to all Maldivian and foreign fishing vessels entering the maritime zones of the Maldives, and to all Maldivian and foreign persons on board such vessels. Accordingly, this Act shall apply to fishing, fisheries-related activities, and any other matters falling within the scope of this Act conducted on such vessels.

(2) Outside the maritime zones of the Maldives, this Act shall apply to the following parties:
i. Maldivian vessels; and
ii. All Maldivian and foreign persons on board the vessels specified in sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (2) of this sub-article.

(3) This Act shall apply to all persons, marine vessels, land vehicles, aircraft, processing and export facilities, or any other vessels or places involved in or associated with activities falling within the scope of this Act.

(b) The authority of this Act and the regulations made hereunder shall extend within and outside the maritime zones of the Maldives, in accordance with this Act and its regulations.

(c) Unless otherwise specified in this Act or in a regulation made under this Act, the principles stated in this Act shall not apply to subsistence fishing.

(d) Notwithstanding the provision in sub-article (c) of this Article, the Ministry is empowered to establish regulations and principles for subsistence fishing, or to determine that other regulations made under this Act, or certain articles thereof, shall apply to subsistence fishing.

5. Objectives and Principles of Fisheries Planning, Management, and Administration

In exercising the powers and fulfilling the responsibilities conferred upon it by this Act and its regulations, the Ministry and all parties enforcing this Act shall have regard to the following objectives and principles:

(a) To formulate fisheries planning, management, and administration measures for the sustainable use of fisheries resources and their environment and to promote the optimal utilization of those resources;

(b) To ensure that the measures referred to in sub-article (a) of this Article are based on the best available scientific information and are designed to maintain or restore target fish stocks to levels capable of producing the maximum sustainable yield, and to ensure that such measures are formulated with due regard to relevant environmental, economic, and social factors, fishing customs and practices, the interdependence of fish stocks, and generally accepted international standards, where appropriate;

(c) To apply the precautionary approach in accordance with this Act and the international obligations binding upon the Maldives;

(d) To identify and minimize the impacts on target fish stocks, non-target species, and other species belonging to the same ecosystem, or other species dependent on or associated with the target fish stocks, resulting from fishing, other human activities, and environmental factors;

(e) To establish measures to minimize the catch of fish entangled in lost or abandoned gear, non-target species, associated or dependent species, especially endangered and protected species, and to develop and promote environmentally friendly fishing gear and techniques;

(f) To protect fisheries resources and their environment;

(g) To ensure that fishing is conducted at a sustainable level to maintain fisheries resources and their environment;

(h) To ensure the participation of subsistence fishers and fishing communities in the planning, management, and administration of fisheries, while having regard to their interests;

(i) To prioritize the preservation of traditional methods in the sustainable planning, management, and administration of fisheries;

(j) To ensure the participation of as many Maldivian citizens as possible in the sustainable use of fisheries resources;

(k) To collect and share accurate and sustainable fisheries-related information, including the position of fishing vessels, target species, bycatch, fishing effort, and information from national and international research; and

(l) To establish an effective monitoring, control, and surveillance system for the implementation of fisheries and related international laws, treaties, and resolutions.

6. Fishermen's Day

A special day shall be observed at the national level once a year to recognize the value of Maldivian fishers and all parties involved in the Maldivian fisheries industry.

7. Acting in Accordance with Principles of Good Governance

The Ministry shall establish and promote a transparent system, developed in accordance with the principles of good governance, which includes the participation of relevant stakeholders in the planning, management, and administration of the Maldives' fisheries resources.

8. Upholding Principles of Gender Equality

Measures taken by the Ministry and other entities empowered under this Act shall be in accordance with the laws of the Maldives and relevant gender equality policies.

9. Fisheries Register

(a) Under this Act, a register containing information on fishers, crew members, vessel owners, and vessels shall be established and maintained by the Ministry in accordance with the principles set out in the regulations made under this Act.

(b) The information required to establish and maintain the register referred to in this Article may be obtained by the Ministry through local councils.

(c) The register referred to in this Article shall be established by the Ministry within 100 (one hundred) days from the date this Act comes into force.

10. Ensuring Social Protection and Pension for Fishers

To protect the rights of fishers and to ensure their rightful social protection and pension, a pension and disability insurance scheme for fishers shall be established by the Maldives Pension Administration Office in consultation with the Ministry.

11. Providing Fisheries Education and Training

A fisheries-related institute or college shall be established and developed to expand and advance the fisheries industry and to provide modern education and training in the industry.

12. Expanding the Business of Building Fishing Vessels and Boats

The Ministry shall promote the enforcement of the special Boat Building Code formulated by the government ministry responsible for transportation matters in the production of fishing vessels such as masdhoni, promote and market the boat building industry, facilitate opportunities in foreign markets for those active in the sector, and provide opportunities for participation in such activities.

13. Adapting to Climate Change and Mitigating Damage

The Ministry shall ensure that activities carried out under the authority or permission of this Act and its regulations are conducted with due regard to the policies, strategies, relevant laws, regulations, principles, and measures established by the Maldives concerning climate change adaptation and mitigation of its damages.

14. Protecting Seabird Nesting and Breeding Sites

To protect seabird nesting and breeding islands and sandbanks in the Maldives and to conduct necessary studies to increase such sites, an action plan shall be formulated by the Ministry in collaboration with the government ministry responsible for environmental matters within 6 (six) months from the date this Act comes into force.

15. Consultation with Government Agencies and Local Councils

(a) In enforcing this Act and in formulating regulations under this Act, the Ministry shall consult with other Ministries, local councils, and government agencies regarding their respective responsibilities and areas of work.

(b) In carrying out the matters specified in sub-article (a) of this Article, the Ministry may do the following:

(1) Establish Memorandums of Understanding with relevant ministries, local councils, and government agencies;

(2) Establish joint working committees with relevant ministries, local councils, and government agencies;

(3) Delegate powers conferred upon the Ministry under this Act and its regulations to other parties; and

(4) Formulate and implement Standard Operating Procedures to coordinate the work of relevant ministries, local councils, and government agencies to achieve the objectives of this Act.

16. Delegation of Minister's Powers and Responsibilities

(a) The powers and responsibilities conferred upon the Minister under this Act may be delegated by the Minister to a person in charge of a specific agency, or in charge of the administration of such an agency, or holding a specific position, in the following manner:

(1) The delegated matters and the period of delegation shall be stated in writing;

(2) The delegation may be made with or without conditions;

(3) The delegation shall be made in a way that does not diminish the Minister's power to take action regarding the matter;

(4) The Minister may terminate the delegation if deemed necessary.

(b) A document signed by the Minister containing the details of the matters delegated under sub-article (a) of this Article shall be considered evidence that the matter has been delegated in accordance with this Act, unless proven otherwise.

Chapter Three
Fisheries Planning, Management, and Administration

17. Determining Types of Fisheries

(a) The types of fishing permitted in the maritime zones of the Maldives under this Act are specified below:

(1) Skipjack tuna pole and line fishery;
(2) Yellowfin tuna handline fishery;
(3) Longline fishery;
(4) Billfish fishery;
(5) Dropline fishery;
(6) Grouper fishery;
(7) Bait fishery;
(8) Live ornamental fish fishery (aquarium fishery);
(9) Cuttlefish and octopus fishery;
(10) Reef fish fishery;
(11) Spangled emperor fishery in lagoons;
(12) Sea cucumber and sea urchin fishery.

(b) Notwithstanding the provision in sub-article (a) of this Article, the Ministry is empowered to declare a specific type of fishery not listed in that sub-article as permissible within the maritime zones of the Maldives, having regard to the gear used, species caught, purpose of the fishery, and other factors. The newly designated types of fisheries shall be published by the Ministry in the Government Gazette.

18. Fisheries Management Plans

(a) In accordance with the objectives and principles of this Act, for each fishery designated under Article 17, a Fisheries Management Plan shall be prepared to plan, manage, and administer each individual fishery. The Ministry shall ensure that these plans are implemented and that arrangements are in place for their appropriate review.

(b) Each Fisheries Management Plan referred to in sub-article (a) of this Article shall include the following:

(1) The current level of fish catch in that fishery;
(2) The other fish species present in the habitat of the target species of the fishery, or other species associated with or dependent on them;
(3) The objectives to be achieved by the management plan;
(4) The measures to be taken for the management and development of that fishery;
(5) The manner in which licensing for that fishery will be arranged;
(6) Any restrictions on the catch limits for vessels resulting from that fishery; and
(7) The duration of the management plan, the review process, and the amendment process.

19. Commencement of Management Plans

(a) Every Fisheries Management Plan made under Article 18 of this Act shall be a regulation made under this Act.

(b) Every Fisheries Management Plan shall be published by the Ministry in the Government Gazette.

(c) In preparing and reviewing each Fisheries Management Plan, the Ministry shall consult with all affected parties, including the following:

(1) Government agencies that will be affected by the management plans;
(2) Fishers engaged in that fishery, and other parties who will be affected by it; and
(3) Where appropriate, the relevant country or countries and regional organizations, to harmonize measures for the planning, management, and administration of fisheries on shared fish stocks with other countries, including the Maldives.

(d) Within 1 (one) year from the date this Act comes into force, the Ministry shall formulate and implement a management plan as described in Article 18 for each type of fishery specified in Article 17 of this Act.

(e) After the period specified in sub-article (d) of this Article, a permit for any commercial fishing in the maritime zones of the Maldives shall only be granted if a Fisheries Management Plan has been prepared for that fishery.

(f) If any article or articles within a Fisheries Management Plan conflict with this Act, the conflicting article or articles shall not be enforceable.

(g) The Minister has the discretion to amend or repeal a Fisheries Management Plan if, after consultation with the parties affected by the plan, the Minister believes that amending or repealing the plan is the right course of action in that situation.

20. Management Plan Advisory Committee

(a) Each Fisheries Management Plan shall establish an advisory committee to advise the Ministry on the implementation and review of that management plan.

(b) The method of forming the advisory committees mentioned in sub-article (a) of this Article, their functions, and their operational procedures shall be included in a regulation made under this Act.

21. Other Fisheries-related Plans

In addition to the Management Plans specified in Article 18 of this Act, the Ministry may formulate other fisheries-related plans within the scope of this Act for its implementation.

22. Regulations on Fisheries Planning, Management, and Administration

(a) The Ministry is empowered to formulate necessary regulations concerning the planning, management, and administration of fisheries in the maritime zones of the Maldives, in consultation with local councils, the enforcement agencies specified in this Act, and other relevant agencies.

(b) Regulations made under this Article may include the following matters:

(1) Management of fisheries resources and their environment in lagoons, in consultation with the government ministry responsible for environmental matters;
(2) Designation of prohibited gear, equipment, and chemicals for use in fishing and fisheries-related activities;
(3) Establishment of procedures for designating special fisheries resources and their environments, and prohibiting entry of certain vessels into such designated areas and prohibiting certain activities for vessels entering those areas;
(4) As a management and conservation measure and penalty, prohibiting a specific type of fishing, or opening a fishery for a specific period, or setting catch limits, weight, or size of fish;
(5) Designating protected fish species and, for the purpose of protecting or managing a fish species related to fisheries, other than those protected by another law, prohibiting the export, import, or trade of that species as a measure to be taken in relation to such matters;
(6) Establishing procedures for the transit of foreign fishing vessels in the maritime zones of the Maldives, including standards for the stowage of fishing gear on such vessels transiting the Exclusive Economic Zone of the Maldives, and rules of conduct for such vessels during transit;
(7) Establishing procedures for dealing with bycatch, taking into account the issued license;
(8) Establishing rules regarding the handling of fish on fishing vessels, including the preservation and use of fish and fish products, and matters related to recording and sharing such information;
(9) Specifying the method for regularly recording fisheries-related information and sharing that information with the Ministry;
(10) Establishing regulations for fish weighing, designating ports or other areas for weighing, and standards for transporting fish and fish products from one place to another;
(11) Making regulations for reporting persons who violate this Act and the regulations made hereunder to the Ministry;
(12) Standards of conduct for bunkering or supplying fuel to fishing boats in the maritime zones of the Maldives;
(13) Any other measures the Minister deems necessary for the long-term sustainable use of fisheries resources or to fulfill the international obligations of the Maldives;
(14) Studying global fisheries markets, and establishing and working towards principles to secure the best prices for fishers; and
(15) Promoting fish caught in the Maldives and products made from fish in the global market.

Chapter Four
Fishing and Fisheries-related Activities in the Maritime Zones of the Maldives

23. Fishing and Fisheries-related Activities in the Maritime Zones of the Maldives

Unless otherwise specified in this Act, fishing and fisheries-related activities in the maritime zones of the Maldives shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.

24. Exploratory Fishing

(a) Before introducing a particular type of fishery to the Maldives, the Minister may establish procedures for conducting exploratory fishing operations to determine whether that type of fishery is economically viable.

(b) No person participating in the exploratory fishing specified in this Article shall be exempt from this Act.

(c) The designation of exploratory fishing, the manner of conducting it, and the method of granting permission for it, as referred to in this Article, shall be included in a regulation made under this Act.

25. Entry of Foreign Fishing Vessels into the Maritime Zones of the Maldives for Transit

(a) Foreign fishing vessels shall enter the maritime zones of the Maldives only after obtaining prior permission from the Ministry.

(b) The Ministry shall formulate a regulation concerning the procedure for granting the permission referred to in sub-article (a) of this Article. A regulation made under this Article may include the following matters:

(1) Reporting the entry and exit of foreign fishing vessels into and from the maritime zones of the Maldives;
(2) Information to be provided by foreign fishing vessels entering the maritime zones of the Maldives;
(3) Conditions regarding the stowage of gear on a foreign fishing vessel while it is in the maritime zones of the Maldives; and
(4) Measures that can be taken against foreign fishing vessels that fail to report their entry into and exit from the maritime zones of the Maldives in accordance with paragraph (1) of sub-article (b) of this Article.

(c) It is prohibited for any such vessel that enters to conduct any type of fishing within the maritime zones of the Maldives.

26. Fishing and Fisheries-related Activities by Foreign Vessels in the Maldivian Territory

(a) Unless proven otherwise, if any foreign fishing vessel enters a maritime zone of the Maldives without obtaining a permit required under this Act, it shall be presumed that the vessel has entered the maritime zone of the Maldives to conduct fishing or a fisheries-related activity.

(b) Foreign fishing vessels entering the maritime zones of the Maldives must act in accordance with international laws on the protection and preservation of the marine environment. Furthermore, such vessels must comply with all instructions given by any authority empowered to enforce this Act under this Act or a regulation made hereunder.

27. Prohibited Types of Fishing in the Maritime Zones of the Maldives

The following types of fishing are prohibited in the maritime zones of the Maldives:

(a) Purse seine fishing;
(b) Gillnet fishing;
(c) Trawl net fishing;
(d) Fishing with nets, except for subsistence fishing and bait fishing;
(e) Fishing using explosives, poison, or any other such chemical.

28. Selling Fish to Foreign Fishing Vessels

(a) Maldivian fishing vessels may sell fish to foreign fishing vessels only with a permit issued for this purpose by the Ministry.

(b) The procedures for issuing the permit mentioned in sub-article (a) of this Article, the conditions and standards to be met by the vessels selling and buying fish under that sub-article, the areas where such vessels can conduct their selling activities, the principles for selling fish, and the procedures for exporting fish sold in this manner shall be specified in a regulation made under this Act.

(c) Foreign vessels coming to buy fish under sub-article (a) of this Article must, in addition to the permit required under this Act, also obtain any permits required under any other law.

29. Fish Processing Plants, Household-level Fish Factories, and Ice Plants

(a) Fish and fish products may be processed in the Maldives, and ice plants for fish preservation may be established, only after obtaining a permit from the Ministry in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder. However, the Ministry shall make arrangements for the issuance of permits for the establishment of factories falling into the categories specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) of sub-article (c) of this Article through local councils, as per the regulations made under this Act.

(b) Permits for establishing household-level fish factories, among the fish processing plants mentioned in this Article, shall be issued only for the establishment of such factories on inhabited islands. However, this Article does not preclude the establishment of industrial-scale fish processing plants on inhabited islands.

(c) Permits for establishing household-level fish factories on inhabited islands shall be issued by categorizing such factories as follows:

(1) A category including factories with a capacity to process less than 5 (five) tons of fish per day;
(2) A category including factories with a capacity to process between 5 (five) and 10 (ten) tons of fish per day; and
(3) A category including factories with a capacity to process more than 10 (ten) tons of fish per day.

(d) When issuing permits for the establishment of household-level fish factories as per sub-article (c) of this Article, regard shall be had to the following, based on the category of the factory:

(1) The amount of energy to be used by the factory;
(2) The amount of water to be used by the factory;
(3) The number of employees who will work at the facility;
(4) The capital expenditure and recurrent expenditure of the factory.

(e) The Ministry shall determine a specific quantity of fish that can be stored in the factories belonging to each category of household-level fish factories specified in sub-article (c) of this Article and shall inform the public through an announcement published in the Government Gazette.

(f) Land required by parties applying to establish household-level fish factories on inhabited islands shall be leased to them by the island council of that island, or if in a city, by the city council of that city, in accordance with Law No. 1/2002 (Maldives Land Act) and the island's Land Use Plan. Accordingly, suitable land for establishing household-level fish factories shall be leased by local councils as per the regulations made under sub-article (a) of this Article.

(g) At least 55% (fifty-five percent) of the employees working in household-level fish factories established under this Article must be Maldivian employees.

(h) The procedures to be followed and the standards to be considered when issuing permits to operate fish processing plants, household-level fish factories, and ice plants as per sub-article (a) of this Article shall be specified in a regulation made under this Act.

(i) The standards of hygiene to be maintained in the fish processing plants, household-level fish factories, and ice plants mentioned in this Article, and the quality and standards for the fish products produced in such facilities, shall be determined by the government ministry responsible for setting food safety standards and shall be stated in a regulation formulated by that ministry. Furthermore, the hygiene standards of such factories shall be continuously monitored by that ministry in accordance with those standards.

30. Commercialization of Fish Products from Fish Processing Plants and Household-level Fish Factories

(a) The fish products produced by the fish processing plants mentioned in Article 29 of this Act may be traded only after obtaining a permit from the government ministry responsible for economic affairs.

(b) The business permit mentioned in this Article may be issued to foreign parties in accordance with the principles set out in this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

31. Establishment of Offshore Platforms

(a) The Ministry has the authority to establish offshore platforms in accordance with regulations made under this Act, in order to facilitate access to necessary items for Maldivian vessels fishing in the Maldives' Exclusive Economic Zone and to conduct fisheries-related activities determined by the Ministry.

(b) The parties who will establish the platforms mentioned in sub-article (a) of this Article shall be determined through a bidding process as specified in the regulations made under this Act.

(c) The method of establishing the platforms mentioned in sub-article (a) of this Article, the manner of issuing licenses to operate such platforms, and the items that can be sold and the work that can be done on such platforms shall be specified in a regulation made under this Act.

32. Selling Fish to Foreign Countries

(a) Maldivian fishing vessels may go to foreign countries to sell fish caught from the maritime zones of the Maldives only after obtaining a permit from the Ministry in accordance with the principles set out in this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

(b) As stated in sub-article (a) of this Article, fish can be sold directly to a foreign country only to countries that are party to such agreements, in accordance with the principles stated in the relevant agreement between the Maldives and that country.

33. Regulations concerning Fishing and Fisheries-related Activities in the Maritime Zones of the Maldives

(a) Regulations that need to be made concerning fishing and fisheries-related activities in the maritime zones of the Maldives shall be made and implemented by the Ministry.

(b) Regulations made under this Article may include the following matters:

(1) Issuance of permits or licenses for fishing and fisheries-related activities, the conditions to be included in such permits or licenses, and matters related to the suspension, revocation, and renewal of permits or licenses;
(2) Procedures for reviewing and appealing decisions to not issue a license or permit, not to renew a license, or to revoke a license;
(3) Information to be provided by the owner, skipper, master, or operator of a fishing vessel;
(4) Fees payable for licenses or permits;
(5) Formulation of policies on integrated fisheries tourism, and principles for promoting and advertising the industry;
(6) Analysis and studies related to fishing and fisheries-related activities;
(7) The number of foreigners that can be employed on Maldivian fishing vessels and the work they can be assigned;
(8) Principles for setting and implementing a minimum price at which fish caught or harvested in a fishery designated as a specific fishery under Article 17 of this Act can be bought and sold; and
(9) Arrangements that must be in place on fishing vessels when they are registered in the Maldives. This includes standards and principles for the sleeping, eating, drinking, and toilet arrangements for the crew working on those vessels.

Chapter Five
Fishing Outside the Maritime Zones of the Maldives

34. Use of Maldivian Vessels Outside the Maritime Zones of the Maldives

Any person using a Maldivian vessel for fishing or fisheries-related activities outside the maritime zones of the Maldives must do so in the following manner:

(a) With a valid license or permit issued by the Ministry and relevant authorities in accordance with the regulations made under this Act;
(b) In accordance with the conditions stated in the license or permit issued under this Act;
(c) In accordance with the principles established in this Act and the regulations made hereunder;
(d) In accordance with international laws, treaties, and resolutions related to fisheries and fishing.

35. Regulations on Fishing Outside the Maritime Zones of the Maldives

(a) The Ministry is empowered to formulate regulations concerning fishing and fisheries-related activities conducted on Maldivian vessels outside the maritime zones of the Maldives, in consultation with relevant authorities.

(b) Regulations made under this Article may include the following and other matters:

(1) Establishing a record of fishing vessels licensed or permitted to fish outside the maritime zones of the Maldives;
(2) Issuing licenses or permits for fishing outside the maritime zones of the Maldives;
(3) Conditions to be included in licenses or permits granted for fishing outside the maritime zones of the Maldives;
(4) Renewing issued licenses or permits;
(5) Suspending and revoking issued licenses or permits;
(6) Appealing a decision not to issue a license or permit, not to renew a license, to revoke a license, or to withdraw a granted permit;
(7) Information to be provided by fishing vessels for inclusion in the record of fishing vessels;
(8) Matters related to cooperation with foreign countries and regional fisheries management organizations, including regional organizations for fisheries management, concerning the records of fishing vessels and other relevant matters;
(9) Prohibited activities when fishing outside the maritime zones of the Maldives;
(10) Penalties for activities expressly prohibited when fishing outside the maritime zones of the Maldives.

Chapter Six
Principles of Licensing

36. Issuance of Licenses

(a) Fishing in the maritime zones of the Maldives shall be conducted only after obtaining a license in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

(b) The Ministry shall make arrangements for the convenient issuance of fishing licenses under this Act through local councils.

(c) A fishing license mentioned in sub-article (a) of this Article shall not be issued to a vessel registered in a foreign country.

(d) If the registration of any Maldivian vessel licensed under this Act is revoked or temporarily suspended by the relevant authority, the license issued to that vessel under this Act shall also be revoked or temporarily suspended in accordance with the authority's decision. And if the relevant authority reviews its decision to revoke the registration of such a vessel and decides not to temporarily suspend or revoke the registration, the license issued under this Act shall also be treated in accordance with that decision.

(e) No license issued under this Act shall be transferred to a third party without the permission of the Ministry.

37. Format of the License

Every license issued for fishing shall be a license issued by the Ministry subject to the conditions specified in the regulations made under this Act.

38. Collection of Fees

Every license for fishing shall be issued upon payment of the fee determined by the Ministry for issuing the license, as specified in the regulations made under this Act.

39. Revocation and Temporary Suspension of Licenses

(a) A license issued for fishing under this Act shall be revoked or temporarily suspended in the following circumstances:

(1) When it is important to revoke or temporarily suspend the license for the management and administration of a particular type of fishery;
(2) The licensed vessel has been used in contravention of this Act or has violated a condition of the license;
(3) The registration of that vessel issued by the relevant authority has been revoked or temporarily suspended;
(4) A situation arises that requires the revocation or temporary suspension of the license under an international agreement signed by the Maldives.

(b) If a license issued for fishing under this Act is temporarily suspended or revoked as specified in sub-article (a) of this Article, the license holder shall be notified in writing.

(c) If any license is temporarily suspended or revoked as specified in this Article, the Ministry is not obliged to refund any fee paid to the Ministry in connection with that license.

40. Notice

(a) Notices given to foreign fishing vessels under this Act shall be in writing or by telex, radio, e-mail, or any other method deemed appropriate by the Minister.

(b) In circumstances where notice cannot be given in writing as specified in sub-article (a) of this Article, such notices shall be given by telex, radio, e-mail, or any other such method deemed appropriate by the Minister, and the fact shall be recorded.

41. Appeal to the Minister

A party dissatisfied with a notice issued by the Ministry under Article 40 of this Act shall, within 30 (thirty) days of receiving such notice, submit a request to the Minister to review the notice. The Minister shall make a decision on the review request within 21 (twenty-one) days and inform the submitting party. If the party is dissatisfied with the Minister's decision on the submission, the matter may be brought before the relevant court.

42. Renewal of License

(a) Upon submission to the Ministry via a prescribed form 30 (thirty) days before the expiry of a license issued under Article 36 of this Act, the license shall be extended for a further period after payment of a prescribed fee.

(b) A license can be extended as specified in sub-article (a) of this Article only if the conditions of the license have not been violated.

Chapter Seven
Prevention of Illegal Fishing

43. Prevention of Illegal, Unreported, and Unregulated (IUU) Fishing

(a) The Ministry shall take necessary measures to prevent, deter, and eliminate illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing conducted by all parties in the maritime zones of the Maldives and such fishing conducted by Maldivian citizens outside the maritime zones of the Maldives.

(b) In carrying out the matters specified in sub-article (a) of this Article, the Ministry shall cooperate with foreign countries, international organizations, and private organizations and shall provide all information that facilitates the prevention, reduction, and elimination of illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing.

(c) No subsidy of any kind, or any other financial or material assistance, shall be provided by the Ministry to any vessel included in any Illegal, Unregulated, and Unreported (IUU) list due to its involvement in such fishing.

44. Regulations on Illegal, Unreported, and Unregulated Fishing

(a) The Ministry is empowered to make necessary regulations to prevent illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing in the maritime zones of the Maldives and such fishing conducted by Maldivian citizens outside the maritime zones of the Maldives.

(b) Regulations made under this Article may include the following and other relevant matters:

(1) Activities that constitute illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing;
(2) Conditions to be met by fishing vessels before being registered as a fishing vessel in the Maldives;
(3) Measures to be taken against Maldivian fishing vessels engaged in illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing, including revocation of registration; and
(4) Procedures to be followed for cooperation with foreign countries, intergovernmental organizations, and private organizations.

Chapter Eight
Aquaculture

45. Principles of Aquaculture Development

It is the responsibility of the Ministry to promote, coordinate, and manage all activities related to the development of aquaculture in the Maldives.

46. Designation of Aquaculture Zones

(a) The Ministry may, by an announcement in the Government Gazette, designate a specific area as a special zone for aquaculture, taking into account scientific, social, economic, environmental, and other factors.

(b) If the Ministry designates a specific area as an aquaculture zone as specified in sub-article (a) of this Article, the Ministry may declare that area to be an area where the principles established in regulations made under this Act shall apply.

(c) The Ministry may, by an announcement in the Government Gazette, designate areas where aquaculture is prohibited.

(d) No person shall conduct any aquaculture work in areas where aquaculture and aquaculture-related activities are prohibited.

47. Aquaculture Management Plan

(a) It is the responsibility of the Ministry to prepare, appropriately review, and implement management plans for the development, planning, management, and administration of aquaculture, in accordance with the objectives and principles of this Act.

(b) Each Aquaculture Management Plan shall include the following matters:

(1) The areas to be developed in relation to aquaculture activities and the areas where aquaculture is prohibited;
(2) The important areas for research and the species to be farmed in aquaculture;
(3) The objectives to be achieved by developing aquaculture activities;
(4) The measures to be taken regarding the management and development of aquaculture; this includes specifying prohibited activities near a designated area of an aquaculture site; and
(5) The duration of the management plan and the procedures to be followed for its review and amendment.

(c) In preparing and reviewing each Aquaculture Management Plan, the Ministry shall consult with the affected ministries, the councils of the islands where aquaculture is planned, relevant agencies, and any other parties who will be affected by the plan.

(d) Every Aquaculture Management Plan formulated under this Act must be complied with by the parties responsible for its implementation and by all parties carrying out the activities included in the plan.

(e) An Aquaculture Management Plan formulated under this Act shall come into force upon its publication in the Government Gazette.

48. Aquaculture License

(a) No person shall engage in aquaculture except under the authority of a license issued by the Ministry.

(b) An aquaculture license shall not be issued unless it is certain that the following conditions have been met:

(1) An Environmental Impact Assessment report has been prepared in accordance with the relevant laws of the Maldives;
(2) The granting of the aquaculture permit does not disrupt other economic activities being carried out in that area;
(3) No adverse environmental impact is likely to occur as a result of granting the aquaculture permit;
(4) The area permitted for aquaculture is suitable for aquaculture or for farming a specific designated species.

(c) Within 90 (ninety) days from the date this Act comes into force, the Ministry shall designate a specific species or special species for aquaculture and publish it in the Government Gazette.

(d) Notwithstanding the provision in sub-article (c) of this Article, if any party wishes to farm a species not designated by the Ministry, this Article does not prevent the Ministry from granting permission for it upon application, in accordance with the regulations made under this Act. The new species for which aquaculture permits are issued shall be published by the Ministry in the Government Gazette as stated in sub-article (c) of this Article.

49. Monitoring and Management of Aquaculture Activities

The Ministry shall establish and implement a monitoring and control system to monitor and control aquaculture activities conducted under permits issued in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

50. Leasing of Areas for Aquaculture

(a) A part of the sea or land area may be leased by the Ministry for the purpose of aquaculture under this Act.

(b) In determining the area to be leased under sub-article (a) of this Article, the Ministry shall consult with the government ministry responsible for land matters, local councils, and other relevant government agencies.

(c) Any area shall be leased under sub-article (a) of this Article in a manner that does not contravene Law No. 1/2002 (Maldives Land Act) and the regulations made thereunder.

(d) The areas leased under sub-article (a) of this Article and the prohibition of public use of those areas shall be announced to the public through a notice published in the Government Gazette.

51. Collection of Fees

Every license issued for aquaculture shall be issued upon payment of the fee determined by the Ministry for issuing the license, as specified in the regulations made under this Act.

52. Revocation and Temporary Suspension of Licenses

A license issued for aquaculture under this Act may be revoked or temporarily suspended if any of the following circumstances arise:

(a) The person to whom the aquaculture license has been issued, or the person who has leased an area for such work, violates any condition contained in the license, or fails to rectify such a violation within a reasonable period;

(b) The license holder fails to commence aquaculture activities within the period specified in the license;

(c) It becomes necessary to revoke or suspend the license to protect and preserve the environment and to maintain the genetic diversity of the ecosystem;

(d) The license holder fails to report information regarding any disease or infected organism to the Ministry, or fails to take all necessary measures to prevent the spread of such a disease or infected organism in accordance with this Act;

(e) The license holder fails to destroy or treat any diseased or infected aquatic organism.

53. Use of Feed, Drugs, and Disinfectants

(a) The general standards for the use of feed, drugs, and disinfectants in aquaculture shall be determined in a regulation made under this Act.

(b) In addition to the general standards determined under sub-article (a) of this Article, the Ministry may specify special standards in the license issued for aquaculture.

54. Disease and Infection

(a) If any disease or infected aquatic organism is present in an aquaculture facility, the license holder shall immediately report it to the Ministry.

(b) The license holders shall comply with the instructions given by the Ministry in response to a report made under sub-article (a) of this Article.

(c) The license holder shall take all necessary measures to prevent the spread of disease and infected organisms. Such measures include the destruction of aquatic organisms, the destruction of aquaculture products, and the disinfection of the aquaculture facility.

(d) For the purpose of this Article, "infection" means a transmutation in the natural anatomy or physiology of fisheries resources caused by a pathogen or other such living thing.

55. Regulations on Aquaculture

(a) The Ministry may, in consultation with relevant ministries and government agencies, make and implement regulations concerning all aquaculture activities conducted in the Maldives.

(b) Regulations made under this Article shall include the following matters:

(1) Conditions for aquaculture areas;
(2) The design, materials, and method of construction to be used in building aquaculture establishments;
(3) Health standards to be maintained for the fish being farmed in aquaculture;
(4) Measures to be taken to prevent the escape of fish species brought to the Maldives for aquaculture;
(5) Measures to be taken to protect stocks from diseases, and standards for reporting such diseases to the Ministry;
(6) Methods for bringing aquaculture fish and fish products to market;
(7) Issuance of licenses or permits for aquaculture;
(8) Licensing of aquaculture facilities, and the information to be included in an aquaculture license;
(9) Fishing in connection with aquaculture facilities;
(10) Introduction of new living species in a manner not conflicting with other laws in force in the Maldives;
(11) Protection of the aquaculture ecosystem;
(12) Transfer of aquaculture products from one place to another;
(13) Reporting of information on dead fish and related measures;
(14) Import of live fish for aquaculture purposes;
(15) Sale of aquaculture products;
(16) Conducting assessments to identify the environmental impact of aquaculture activities;
(17) Establishing records of licenses and permits issued for aquaculture;
(18) Establishing an advisory framework based on consultation regarding aquaculture; and
(19) Methods for appealing the decisions of enforcement agencies.

Chapter Nine
Monitoring, Control, and Surveillance System

56. Monitoring, Control, and Surveillance System

To monitor and control fishing conducted under this Act, a monitoring, control, and surveillance system shall be established and implemented by the Ministry in collaboration with the Coast Guard, the Maldives Police Service, the Maldives Customs Service, the government ministry responsible for transportation matters, and other relevant agencies.

57. Enforcement

(a) It is the responsibility of the Coast Guard, the Maldives Police Service, and the Maldives Customs Service to enforce all regulations assigned to them in accordance with their duties, and the responsibilities and enforcement tasks assigned to them by this Act.

(b) Every officer of the Coast Guard, Maldives Police Service, and Maldives Customs Service with relevant training and experience shall be considered an enforcement officer appointed to carry out the responsibilities mentioned in sub-article (a) of this Article.

58. Rangers

(a) Although the enforcement of this Act and some of its related regulations is assigned to the Coast Guard, Maldives Police Service, and Maldives Customs Service, an employee of the Ministry, another ministry, a government agency, or a local council may be appointed by the Ministry as a ranger in accordance with regulations made under this Act to carry out and enforce the responsibilities and duties stated in this Act and its regulations.

(b) The responsibilities and qualifications of rangers appointed by the Ministry under this Article shall be specified in a regulation made under this Act.

(c) Rangers appointed under this Article shall work in collaboration with local councils and the enforcement officers specified in this Act.

59. Powers of Maldives Police Service Enforcement Officers

The enforcement officers of the Maldives Police Service mentioned in Article 57 of this Act are empowered to do the following without a court order:

(a) To stop all vessels operating in the maritime zones of the Maldives, to order the production of a fishing license, permit, or any other such document to check for compliance with this Act and its regulations, to inspect, copy, or make duplicates of such documents;

(b) To order the production of and inspect any type of fishing net or other gear believed to be on such a vessel, and to seize for investigation purposes any items that an enforcement officer has reasonable grounds to believe are being used or may be used to commit an illegal act;

(c) To seize any record, document, or item which an enforcement officer has reasonable grounds to believe is evidence of the commission of an offense against this Act.

60. Powers of Coast Guard Enforcement Officers

The enforcement officers of the Coast Guard mentioned in Article 57 of this Act are empowered to do the following without a court order:

(a) To stop, board, and inspect any foreign fishing vessel within the maritime zones of the Maldives, and to stop, board, and inspect any Maldivian fishing vessel within and outside the maritime zones of the Maldives;

(b) To stop and board Maldivian fishing vessels in the maritime zones of the Maldives and outside the maritime zones of the Maldives in the following circumstances:
(1) To check for a seaworthiness certificate or survey report to ensure the vessel's seaworthiness is satisfactory;
(2) To ensure that the vessel and all equipment used on it comply with relevant laws and regulations; and
(3) To check whether the vessel is suitable for fishing.

(c) To enter and inspect aquaculture facilities in the maritime zones of the Maldives;

(d) To order the production of and inspect any fishing net or other such gear used for catching any type of fish on Maldivian fishing vessels in or outside the maritime zones of the Maldives;

(e) To seize, quarantine, disinfect, or destroy, upon the advice of the Ministry, any live aquatic organisms imported or held for import;

(f) To seize any vessel, or in the case of an aquaculture facility, such facility, with its gear and property, if it is believed that such a vessel or facility is being used or has been used in the maritime zones of the Maldives to commit an offense specified in this Act;

(g) To act against foreign vessels and other vessels associated with them under the principle of "hot pursuit," in accordance with international law. The "hot pursuit" must have commenced within a maritime zone of the Maldives and must be continuous without interruption. The "hot pursuit" will end when the pursued vessel enters the territorial sea of any other country. The enforcement agency's vessel used for the "hot pursuit" must be a Coast Guard vessel.

(h) To enter and inspect fish processing plants, offshore platforms, and ice plants in the maritime zones of the Maldives.

(i) To seize any marine vessel, or any other thing used to transport goods from one place to another in the maritime zones of the Maldives, any fishing gear, property, equipment, or any other thing which an enforcement officer has reasonable grounds to believe has been used to commit or attempt to commit an offense against this Act;

(j) To seize any fish and take samples of such fish from a vessel seized or inspected in the maritime zones of the Maldives, if an enforcement officer has reasonable grounds to believe that the fish was caught, taken, harvested, killed, brought, bought, sold, or found in any person's possession in contravention of this Act;

(k) To arrest the master, owner, or operator of a vessel seized for committing or in the act of committing an offense against this Act, or all persons believed to have committed or participated in the commission of the crime on that vessel; and if an offense against this Act has been or is being committed in a fish processing plant, offshore platform, or ice plant in the maritime zones of the Maldives, to arrest the operator of such a facility and all its employees.

61. Powers of Customs Enforcement Officers

The enforcement officers of the Maldives Customs Service mentioned in Article 57 of this Act are empowered to do the following:

(a) In the circumstances specified in this Act, to inspect all necessary matters before giving inward clearance to any vessel arriving in the Maldives from abroad upon its arrival at a Maldivian port;

(b) In the circumstances specified in this Act, to inspect all necessary matters and order the fulfillment of required matters before giving outward clearance to vessels departing from the Maldives;

(c) In the circumstances specified in this Act, to inspect the goods, persons, and other items on vessels arriving in the Maldives from abroad and vessels departing from the Maldives carrying fish, in accordance with Law No. 8/2011 (Maldives Customs Act); and

(d) To seize any items found in contravention of laws and regulations on vessels entering and leaving the maritime zones of the Maldives under a permit from the Ministry, in accordance with Law No. 8/2011 (Maldives Customs Act), and to investigate such cases.

62. Seizure and Arrest

(a) If a Coast Guard enforcement officer arrests any person or seizes any property under sub-article (k) of Article 60 of this Act, they shall, as soon as possible, notify the Maldives Police Service and hand over that person or property to the Maldives Police Service.

(b) Standard Operating Procedures for the arrest of persons and seizure of property by the enforcement officers of the Coast Guard and the Maldives Police Service, as specified in Articles 59 and 60 of this Act, shall be formulated jointly by the two agencies.

63. Procedure for Dealing with Arrested or Seized Vessels and Persons

If a vessel or the persons on board are seized or arrested as specified in this Act, they shall be brought to the nearest or most easily accessible port from the area of seizure or arrest. Such a vessel shall be detained until the case is concluded, or until a bond or other security is deposited as specified in Article 65 of this Act.

64. Procedure for Dealing with Perishable Goods

(a) If any fish or other item seized under this Act is of a perishable nature, it may be sold off as specified in the regulations made under this Act.

(b) The procedure for dealing with the money received from the sale of items as specified in sub-article (a) of this Article, and with items that remain unsold after attempting to sell them, shall be included in a regulation made under this Act.

65. Release of Vessel or Seized Item upon Posting of a Reasonable Bond

(a) Upon application to the relevant court for the release of a vessel, aquaculture facility, fishing gear, or any other item seized under this Act, the seized item shall be released after taking a reasonable bond or other such security deposit from the applicant.

(b) The procedures for taking the bond or security deposit under sub-article (a) of this Article shall be formulated by the Ministry in consultation with the enforcement agencies specified in this Act and shall be stated in a regulation made under this Act.

66. Conditions for Bonding

A bond or security taken under sub-article (a) of Article 65 of this Act shall include the following conditions:

(a) If the person is not convicted of the alleged offense, the bond or security money shall be returned to that person;
(b) If the person is convicted of the alleged offense and is required to pay any money to the state, the bond or security money shall be returned to that person within 14 (fourteen) days of payment of that money; and
(c) If a payment is required as specified in sub-article (b) of this Article and is not made, the amount due from that person shall be deducted from the bond money.

67. Forfeiture of Foreign Vessels and Their Property to the State

If it is proven in a court of law that a foreign vessel has committed any act in contravention of this Act, in addition to other measures and fines imposed under this Act, the court may order the following measures:

(a) To forfeit to the State the foreign vessel used in committing the offense, along with its equipment, gear, and property, and any other gear and item used in committing the offense;
(b) To forfeit to the State all species of fish on the vessel used in committing the offense, or the proceeds from the sale of such fish, and all explosives, poisons, or other such substances on the vessel;
(c) Vessels and property forfeited to the State under sub-articles (a) or (b) of this Article shall be dealt with in the manner prescribed in the regulations made under this Act.

68. Release of Seized Vessels and Items if No Action is Taken

If no proceedings as specified in this Act are initiated within 14 (fourteen) days against a vessel or items seized under this Act, that vessel or item shall be released.

69. Observers

(a) The Ministry shall, by an announcement published in the Government Gazette, designate persons to act as observers on vessels that have obtained a permit or a valid license under this Act, or on other vessels specified in regulations made under this Act.

(b) For the purposes of this Act, the Ministry may, by an announcement published in the Government Gazette, designate citizens of foreign countries to act as observers.

(c) It is the responsibility of observers designated under this Act to collect, record, and report reliable and accurate information for scientific purposes, for fisheries planning, management, and administration, and for other purposes specified in the regulations made under this Act.

(d) The qualifications of the persons designated by the Ministry as observers under this Article, and the safety and benefits they are entitled to, shall be included in a regulation formulated under this Act.

70. Cooperation with Enforcement Officers and Rangers

The operator, master, crew of fishing vessels, or persons engaged in fishing or fisheries-related activities or aquaculture shall immediately comply with the information and instructions given by enforcement officers and rangers regarding the course of action.

71. Regulations on Fisheries Monitoring, Control, and Surveillance

The Ministry shall, in consultation with relevant agencies, make the following regulations under this Act on fisheries monitoring, control, and surveillance:

(a) Regarding the collection, assessment, and provision of information and statistics required for formulating monitoring, control, and surveillance standards;
(b) Regarding the confidentiality of information provided by persons engaged in fishing under this Act;
(c) Regarding the exchange of information with other countries;
(d) Regarding observer programs and observers, including the rights and obligations of vessel operators and observers;
(e) Regarding the monitoring of fishing vessels operating in the maritime zones of the Maldives, and fishing and fisheries-related activities conducted by Maldivian vessels outside the maritime zones of the Maldives, through satellite and electronic means;
(f) Regarding the conduct of "hot pursuit" and the doctrine of "constructive presence" in accordance with international law;
(g) Regarding cooperation with foreign states, intergovernmental organizations, and private organizations in reducing and combating illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing conducted within and outside the maritime zones of the Maldives;
(h) Regarding the monitoring and control of foreign fishing vessels entering the maritime zones of the Maldives;
(i) Regarding the arrest of foreign fishing vessels and their crew;
(j) Regarding the duties and responsibilities of enforcement officers;
(k) Regarding boarding fishing vessels;
(l) Regarding the powers of entry and inspection and the procedures for arrest;
(m) Regarding bringing fishing vessels under custody and their release;
(n) Regarding the handling and sale of perishable goods;
(o) Regarding the exercise of "flag state" control over fishing vessels; and
(p) Regarding the exercise of "port state" control over fishing vessels.

Chapter Ten
Offenses and Penalties

72. Prohibited Acts and Civil Violations

(a) Penalties for foreign vessels that violate this Act shall be determined at 20 (twenty) times the amount of the fines specified in this Chapter.

(b) When determining fines for parties who violate this Act and the regulations made hereunder, a separate fine may be imposed on the master, owner, and operator of the vessel, each individually.

73. Fishing Without a License or in Violation of License Conditions

(a) It is an offense for any vessel to conduct fishing or a fisheries-related activity without a license issued by the Ministry or in violation of the conditions specified in the license.

(b) If an offense specified in sub-article (a) of this Article is committed, the Ministry has the discretion to fine each of the master, owner, and operator of the vessel that committed the offense, individually, an amount not exceeding MVR 400,000 (four hundred thousand).

74. Causing Another Party to Fish in Violation of Regulations

(a) It is an offense for a person not empowered to authorize fishing or a fisheries-related activity in the maritime zones of the Maldives to grant such permission to any other person or to cause any other person to carry out such an act.

(b) A person who commits an offense specified in sub-article (a) of this Article may be fined an amount not exceeding MVR 200,000 (two hundred thousand) at the discretion of the Ministry.

75. Conducting Aquaculture Without a License or in Violation of License Conditions

(a) It is prohibited to conduct aquaculture or any aquaculture-related activity without obtaining a license from the Ministry or in violation of the conditions specified in the license.

(b) A person who commits an offense specified in sub-article (a) of this Article may be fined an amount not exceeding MVR 200,000 (two hundred thousand) at the discretion of the Ministry.

76. Engaging in Prohibited Types of Fishing in the Maritime Zones of the Maldives

(a) It is an offense to engage in any type of fishing as specified in Article 27 of this Act.

(b) A person who commits an offense specified in sub-article (a) of this Article may be fined an amount not exceeding MVR 2,000,000 (two million) at the discretion of the Ministry.

77. Committing an Offense Specified in a Regulation Made Under this Act

A person who commits any act specified as an offense in a regulation made under this Act may be fined an amount not exceeding MVR 5,000 (five thousand) at the discretion of the Ministry.

78. Operating Fish Processing Plants, Household-level Fish Factories, Ice Plants, and Offshore Platforms Without a License or in Violation of License Conditions

(a) It is prohibited to establish or operate a fish processing plant, household-level fish factory, offshore platform, or ice plant without a license issued by the Ministry or in violation of the conditions specified in the license.

(b) If an offense specified in sub-article (a) of this Article is committed, the Ministry has the discretion to fine each of the owner and operator of the fish processing plant, offshore platform, or ice plant that committed the offense, individually, an amount not exceeding MVR 400,000 (four hundred thousand).

79. Regulation for Determining Fines

The standards and principles for determining the fines included from Article 73 to Article 78 of this Act shall be specified in a regulation made under this Act.

80. Opportunity to Respond

(a) No civil penalty shall be imposed under this Article unless the party accused of violating this Act and the regulations made hereunder has been given notice and an opportunity to respond, and after a hearing has been held in accordance with the procedures specified in the regulations made under this Act.

(b) In determining the amount of the penalty under sub-article (a) of this Article, the Ministry shall have regard to the nature of the offense, the circumstances in which it was committed, the extent and gravity of the offense, and the degree of responsibility of the offender.

(c) A notice given under sub-article (a) of this Article shall include the following:

(1) The date and nature of the offense;
(2) The offense or prohibited act committed; and
(3) All matters considered by the Ministry in determining the penalty for the offense, including under which Article of this Act the penalty was determined.

(d) If the recipient of a notice given under sub-article (a) of this Article is dissatisfied with the notice, that party shall bring the matter before the relevant court of the Maldives within 30 (thirty) days from the date of receiving the notice.

(e) A party who does not wish to bring the matter before the court as specified in sub-article (d) of this Article shall pay the fine specified in the notice to the Ministry within 30 (thirty) days of receiving the notice. In this case, the amount in the notice shall be considered a debt owed to the state, and if the party fails to pay that amount within that period, the Ministry shall bring the matter before the relevant court of the Maldives.

Chapter Eleven
Jurisdiction and Presumptions

81. Jurisdiction

(a) Any act or omission committed by any person to whom this Act applies in the maritime zones of the Maldives in contravention of any article of this Act or a regulation made hereunder shall be treated as if such act or omission was committed within the territory of the Maldives.

(b) An act or omission by Maldivian vessels, persons on board such vessels, or persons connected to such vessels, committed outside the maritime zones of the Maldives, which is designated as an offense under this Act or a regulation made hereunder, shall be deemed to be an act committed within the territory of the Maldives and an act over which the relevant courts of the Maldives have jurisdiction.

(c) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any other law, action shall be taken in relation to acts committed in contravention of this Act and the regulations made hereunder within 12 (twelve) months of the commission of the act.

(d) Notwithstanding the provision in sub-article (c) of this Article, criminal offenses specified in Law No. 9/2014 (Penal Code of the Maldives) shall be dealt with as specified in that law.

82. Presumptions

(a) Fish found on a fishing vessel used in contravention of this Act or a regulation made hereunder shall, unless the contrary is proven, be presumed to have been caught in the course of committing an offense against this Act.

(b) In any proceedings under this Act or a regulation made hereunder, if the location where the alleged act was committed is in question, the location stated in the entry in the relevant logbook of the enforcement vessel or aircraft, or the location stated in the official records on an enforcement vessel or aircraft shall, unless the contrary is proven, be presumed to be the location where the act was committed.

(c) A copy of a logbook entry or any other official record of an enforcement vessel or aircraft, or a part of an entry certified as correct by the stamp of an enforcement officer, may be submitted as evidence for the purposes of this Act.

(d) For the purpose of any proceedings under this Act or a regulation made hereunder, an act or omission in the course of fishing activities in connection with a vessel shall be deemed to be an act or omission of the owner, operator, and master of the vessel as well. Any document, entry, or other mark, log, chart, or other document required to be kept under this Act or a regulation made hereunder, or items used to record the activities of the fishing vessel, shall be deemed to be the property of the owner, operator, and master of that vessel.

(e) In any proceedings for a contravention of this Act or a regulation made hereunder, if an enforcement officer gives evidence on reasonable grounds that the fish involved in the case was taken from a maritime zone of the Maldives, it shall, unless the contrary is proven, be presumed that the fish was taken from that zone.

(f) In any proceedings for a contravention of this Act or a regulation made hereunder, information provided by a person stating whether they are the owner, operator, or master of the vessel shall, unless the contrary is proven, be presumed to be true information.

(g) A log, record, or other information purported to have been made, kept, or produced by or on behalf of any person shall, for the purposes of this Act or a regulation made hereunder, be presumed, unless the contrary is proven, to have been made, kept, or produced by that person or with their permission.

Chapter Twelve
Miscellaneous

83. Repealed Law

Upon the commencement of this Act, Law No. 5/87 (Maldives Fisheries Law) is hereby repealed.

84. Transitional Provisions

(a) Upon the commencement of this Act, all licenses and permits issued under Law No. 5/87 (Maldives Fisheries Law) shall, without prejudice to sub-article (b) of this Article, be deemed to be licenses and permits issued under this Act and shall remain valid for the remainder of their term.

(b) Notwithstanding the provision in sub-article (a) of this Article, if the Ministry finds that any license or permit issued under Law No. 5/87 (Maldives Fisheries Law) contravenes this Act or any regulation made hereunder, or that the license or permit needs to be amended, or that any conditions need to be added to the license or permit, the Ministry has the discretion to do the following:

(1) Inform the holder of the license or permit of the amended or added conditions; the added conditions shall take effect from the date the person is notified.
(2) Inform the holder of the license or permit of the intention to revoke the license or permit, and that the person must apply for a license or permit for the matter under this Act or the regulations made hereunder.

(c) If the Ministry notifies of the intention to revoke a license or permit under paragraph (2) of sub-article (b) of this Article, the license or permit issued under Law No. 5/87 (Maldives Fisheries Law) shall be revoked in the following circumstances:

(1) If the application for a license or permit as specified in paragraph (2) of sub-article (b) of this Article is not submitted within 30 (thirty) days from the date of the Ministry's notification; or
(2) Upon submission of the application as specified in paragraph (2) of sub-article (b) of this Article, the person is notified that the application is not accepted in accordance with this Act or the regulations made hereunder; or
(3) Upon submission of the application as specified in paragraph (2) of sub-article (b) of this Article, a license or permit is issued under this Act or the regulations made hereunder.

(d) Agreements made for the implementation of Law No. 5/87 (Maldives Fisheries Law) shall be agreements enforceable under this Act, unless repealed in accordance with the articles of the agreement.

85. Application of the Act to Areas Conferring Sovereign Rights for the Exploration and Exploitation of Natural Resources

This Act shall apply to every area designated as a territory of the Maldives in accordance with international law, over which the Maldives has sovereign rights for the exploration and exploitation of natural resources.

86. Making and Implementing Regulations

(a) Unless otherwise specified in this Act, regulations required to be made under this Act shall be made by the Ministry.

(b) Notwithstanding the provision in sub-article (a) of this Article, regulations on the exercise of "flag state" and "port state" control shall be made by the government ministry responsible for transportation matters. And, all regulations related to environmental protection, such as regulations on bunkering and supplying fuel to fishing vessels within the maritime zones of the Maldives, shall be made by the government ministry responsible for environmental matters.

(c) All regulations required to be made under this Act shall be made and published in the Government Gazette within 3 (three) months from the date this Act comes into force.

87. Commencement of the Act

This Act shall come into force on the date of its passing, ratification, and publication in the Government Gazette.

88. Definitions

Unless the context otherwise requires in this Act, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given below:

(a) "Fisheries-related activities" means:
(1) Transshipping fish or fish products to a seagoing vessel, or transferring fish or such products from a seagoing vessel to another place;
(2) Transporting fish from one place to another from the time of catching or harvesting, or preserving fish to prevent spoilage;
(3) Preserving, buying, and processing fish and fish products until the first landing ashore after being taken from the maritime zones of the Maldives;
(4) Exporting fish and fish products;
(5) Bunkering or supplying fuel to fishing vessels or providing any activity or service to support fishing operations; and
(6) Undertaking or preparing to undertake any of the activities specified in paragraphs (1) to (5) of this sub-article.

(b) "Aquaculture" means the farming, rearing, breeding, keeping, and growing of aquatic resources within the territory of the Maldives and within its maritime zones.

(c) "Aquaculture product" means live or dead fish or fish-related species being farmed or having been farmed in an aquaculture facility in the territory of the Maldives or in the maritime zones of the Maldives.

(d) "Aquaculture area" means any area in the Maldives, including land and sea, designated for aquaculture as its main purpose, and where special measures are taken to promote the development of aquaculture.

(e) "Enforcement officer" means any officer designated under Article 57 of this Act for the purpose of enforcing the regulations made under this Act.

(f) "Exploratory fishing" means fishing conducted for a specified period to test the economic feasibility of a particular type of fishery before its introduction in the Maldives.

(g) "Fish" or "fisheries resources" means all living things, whether animal or plant, with or without a fish-like form, that live in water, saltwater, or the sea. This definition includes vertebrate or invertebrate living things, shellfish, turtles, sea urchins, crabs, and the young, spawn, and eggs of said living things.

(h) "Fish processing plant" means lands, buildings, and other places where:
(1) Fish or aquaculture products are cleaned, packaged, chilled, frozen, salted, dried, or otherwise prepared for sale in the Maldives and abroad; or
(2) Fish or aquaculture products are stored for the purpose of sale in the Maldives and abroad, whether packaged, canned, dried, cleaned, salted, chilled, frozen, or otherwise.

(i) "Household-level fish factory" means facilities operated by an individual or community at the island level for producing fish and fish products.

(j) "Fish and fish products" means fish or aquaculture products that are chilled, frozen, canned, dried, salted, or otherwise produced.

(k) "Fishing" means:
(1) Searching for fish for the purpose of catching, taking, killing, or harvesting;
(2) Attempting to search for, catch, take, or kill fish;
(3) Engaging in any other activity that results in searching for, catching, taking, killing, or harvesting fish;
(4) Placing, searching for, or recovering a fish aggregating device or related equipment, including a radio beacon;
(5) Engaging in any activity in preparation for any of the activities mentioned in paragraphs (1), (2), (3), or (4) of this sub-article at sea or on land on an island.

(l) "Fisheries Management Plan" means a plan for the planning, management, administration, and development of fisheries in connection with Chapter Three of this Act.

(m) "Fisheries management" means the conservation, protection, use, and development of living aquatic resources in the maritime zones of the Maldives.

(n) "Fishing vessel" means any vessel, boat, or other craft used for fishing, prepared for fishing, or of a type generally used for fishing or fisheries-related activities.

(o) "Foreign vessel" means:
(1) A vessel registered in a foreign country under the relevant laws of that country; or
(2) A vessel not registered in the Maldives under Maldivian law, or not required to be registered in the Maldives under Maldivian law.

(p) "Foreign fishing vessel" means a fishing vessel registered in a foreign country, or a vessel used for transporting fish from one place to another.

(q) "International measures for fisheries management" means measures established or implemented by an international or regional organization, arrangement, or agreement of which the Maldives is a member or with which it cooperates, even if not a member, concerning the protection or management of fish stocks.

(r) "Illegal, Unreported, Unregulated (IUU) fishing" means all fishing and fisheries-related activities conducted in contravention of international fisheries management measures, as defined in the regulations made under this Act.

(s) "Maldivian citizens" has the meaning given to it in the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives.

(t) "Maldivian vessel" means a vessel not registered in a foreign country under the laws of that country but registered in the Maldives under Maldivian law.

(u) "Maritime zones of the Maldives" means the internal waters, archipelagic waters, territorial sea, and exclusive economic zone of the Maldives as specified in Law No. 6/96 (Maritime Zones of the Maldives Act).

(v) "Master" means the person in chief command and responsibility of a fishing vessel at any given time.

(w) "Minister" means the minister responsible for all matters related to fisheries, including aquaculture.

(x) "Ministry" means the government ministry responsible for all matters of fisheries, including aquaculture.

(y) "Operator" means any person in command of the vessel, responsible for its operation, or who gives instructions or controls the vessel, including the owner, charterer, master, and the person who derives economic or financial benefit from operating the vessel.

(z) "Owner" means the person who performs the duties and responsibilities of the owner or claims to have the rights of the owner, or who accepts the obligations to perform the powers and duties of the owner, whether in their own capacity or on behalf of another person, and any person or persons associated with the owner, or the manager, director, or secretary of a legal person.

(aa) "Persons" or "party" means a natural or legal person. References to "Maldivian citizens" or "Maldivians" include natural and legal persons.

(bb) "Recreational or sport fishing" means fishing for leisure and sport, not including any purpose of selling, exporting, or obtaining economic benefit, and providing any activity or service directly aimed at recreation or sport for income.

(cc) "Regional fisheries management organization" means an international organization composed of three or more countries, charged with the responsibility of establishing measures for the conservation and management of highly migratory fish stocks, fish stocks within and outside nationally managed fishing areas, and other species in the high seas, and coordinating their management.

(dd) "Subsistence fishing" means fishing where the fish caught or harvested is used for direct consumption by the family of the person or persons fishing, and where the fish caught is not sold for any commercial or productive purpose, either personally or through an intermediary.

(ee) "Sustainable use" means the conservation, use, enhancement, and development of marine resources to enable people to achieve their social, economic, and cultural well-being, while doing the following:
(1) Maintaining the richness of the sea in a way that meets the needs of future generations;
(2) Avoiding, remedying, or mitigating the adverse effects that may arise from fishing in the marine environment;
(3) Conserving, using, enhancing, and developing marine resources to enable the people of the Maldives to achieve their social, economic, and cultural well-being.

(ff) "Territory" means the territory of the Maldives as defined in Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives.

(gg) "Offense" means an administrative offense specified as an offense in this Act.

(hh) "Fish processing" means activities carried out to package or preserve fish for long-term storage or to bring about any kind of change to the fish.

(ii) "Ice plant" means facilities that meet the conditions specified under this Act for the purpose of producing ice required to preserve fish and keep it fresh.

(jj) "Offshore platform" means a facility established in the sea area outside the inner atolls for the purpose of buying fish from fishers, processing fish, or providing any other service required by fishing vessels.

(kk) "Precautionary" means taking action in anticipation of a matter going in an unintended way, in the absence of complete and clear information about it.

(ll) "Precautionary approach" means taking measures to manage natural resources with regard to the potential harm that could result from inaction, in order to manage those resources within sustainable limits, in the absence of complete information obtained through scientific research or when a matter is uncertain.

(mm) "Ecosystem approach" means the protection of natural resources and the environmental system in the coastal and marine areas and the sustainable use of those resources through an integrated management system.

(nn) "Genetic diversity of the ecosystem" means the diversity of genetics or genes in the living things within an environmental system.

(oo) "Hot pursuit" means the chasing of a suspect or suspects by a law enforcement authority in order to apprehend them.

(pp) "Doctrine of constructive presence" means the principle that a coastal state's legal authority extends to a foreign-registered vessel operating outside the coastal state's jurisdictional area if it is acting in concert with a vessel or aircraft of that coastal state.

(qq) "Flag state" means the country where the vessel is registered.

(rr) "Port state" means the country that provides port services to a marine vessel or the country where the vessel is currently berthed.
