Maldives Financial Securities Act

Introduction

    This is an Act enacted to develop the capital market in the Maldives, to oversee the activities of the capital market, and to establish and operate a Capital Market Development Authority in the Maldives for the purpose of issuing required licenses related to capital market activities and undertaking other matters. This is also the law concerning the business of securities in the Maldives.

Name

    This Act shall be cited as the "Maldives Financial Securities Act".

Chapter 1

Capital Market Development Authority

Formation and Status of the Authority

    By this Act, a separate legal personality named the Capital Market Development Authority is hereby established. This body is established to function continuously without interruption. This body has the right to sue and be sued in its name, and to acquire, receive, and conduct various transactions with movable and immovable property as permitted by law.

Main Objectives of the Authority

    The main objectives of the Authority are:

    (a) To create a robust and fair market for the creation, issuance, and trading of securities;

    (b) To protect the rights and define the obligations of parties who buy, sell, or offer to buy or sell securities;

    (c) To regulate and oversee the securities market;

    (d) To prevent undesirable practices in securities transactions and to take necessary measures to prevent acts that may cause a loss of confidence in the securities market; and

    (e) To carry out any other acts mandated to the Authority by any other law.

General Powers of the Authority

    To achieve its objectives, the Authority is vested with all powers to do all things necessary to fulfill its responsibilities in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder, in a manner consistent with the law.

Board of Directors

    (a) There shall be a Board of Directors of the Authority, which shall be responsible for determining the policy of the Authority.

    (b) The members of the Board shall be appointed by the President of the Republic upon the advice of the Cabinet of Ministers.

    (c) The Board shall be comprised of the following 7 persons.
    (1) The Chairman of the Board;
    (2) The Chief Executive Officer of the Authority;
    (3) A person from the Maldives Monetary Authority, proposed by that Authority;
    (4) A person from the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, proposed by that Ministry;
    (5) The Registrar of Companies;
    (6) Two competent persons with experience and active involvement in economic affairs in the private sector, who do not hold a government post, to be appointed.

    (d) Members appointed to the Board under subsection (c) of this Article must possess the following characteristics:
    (1) Have worked in a financial institution or have worked for a long period in the field of business, possess experience in financial matters, and have obtained higher education in a field related to finance, or in a legal or business field;
    (2) Be a person of such academic standing, competence, and work ethic as to be able to fulfill their responsibilities and duties;
    (3) Not be an undischarged bankrupt;
    (4) Not be a person convicted by a court of law for an offense of theft, robbery, fraud, deceit, breach of trust, or bribery within the past 10 years;
    (5) Not be a member of the Board of Directors of an institution regulated by the Authority;
    (6) Not be a person who sits on the Board of Directors or in any other position of an institution operating under the regulations of the Authority, or a person who holds more than 5% of the total shares of such an institution in their own name, or in the name of a party appointed by them, or an associated party, or a company in which they hold shares.

    (e) The term of appointment for each member appointed to the Board of Directors under subsection (c) of this Article is 6 years. Each such appointed member shall be appointed for a maximum of two terms.

    (f) If 4 members of the Board of Directors are present, the quorum for holding a Board meeting shall be deemed to be met.

    (g) Meetings of the Board shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board. In a situation where he is unable to attend, the position shall be filled by a Board member elected by the members present at that meeting to preside over the meeting. A member so elected shall not be the Chief Executive Officer of the Authority.

    (h) A Board meeting shall be held at least once every three months.

Administration of the Authority

    It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to make regulations for the administration of the Authority in accordance with this Act, to ensure the Authority operates in accordance with those regulations, to make rules for holding meetings, to hold meetings, to write and maintain the minutes of meetings, to open, close, and maintain the bank accounts of the Authority, and to have the accounts audited.

Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board

    (a) The Chairman of the Board shall be appointed by the President of the Republic.

    (b) (1) The day-to-day operations of the Authority shall be managed by the Chief Executive Officer of the Authority, in accordance with the policies determined by the Board of Directors.
    (2) The Chief Executive Officer shall be appointed by the President of the Republic on the advice of the Board of Directors.

Removal from Membership of the Board of Directors

    (a) A member of the Board may be removed from their position by the President of the Republic if one of the following circumstances arises:
    (1) Declared bankrupt by a judicial judgment;
    (2) Convicted and sentenced by a court of law for a criminal offense;
    (3) Committing an act deemed unbecoming while holding the position of a member;
    (4) Becoming incompetent in fulfilling the responsibilities of membership;
    (5) Lacking a characteristic required by this Act for a member.

    (b) If a member of the Board wishes to voluntarily resign from the Board, they shall submit this in writing via a letter to the President of the Republic, and upon receipt of the letter by the President of the Republic, that member is deemed removed from the position.

    (c) If a Board member is removed for any reason before the expiry of the term for which the member was appointed, a person shall be appointed to the Board within a maximum of 60 (sixty) days.

Responsibilities and Duties of the Authority

    The responsibilities and duties of the Authority are:

    (a) To ensure that securities are made available to the public in accordance with the law and regulations;

    (b) To oversee the securities market and transactions related to the stock exchange, and to ensure that transactions related to securities are conducted in an open, just, equitable, and robust manner, in accordance with this Act and regulations made hereunder;

    (c) To take measures to prevent and stop acts contrary to law and regulations and other undesirable acts in the course of securities transactions;

    (d) To control and maintain the work and standards of securities dealers, persons representing securities dealers, investment advisers, and other parties licensed under this Act and regulations made hereunder, within a specific professional standard;

    (e) To examine the financial situation of persons licensed under this Act, and if there is suspicion that the financial situation of such a person is not sound, to take measures to protect the rights of service recipients from any harm that may result;

    (f) To provide guidance to the stock exchange company on how to conduct matters related to the operation of the securities market;

    (g) To make, pass, and implement regulations regarding takeovers, mergers, acquisitions, and other ways in which businesses may be combined, concerning a company listed on the stock exchange;

    (h) To make regulations and determine principles for the development of the securities market;

    (i) To expand the capital market by studying additional instruments and products that can be introduced to the market, and if such new instruments are seen as empowering the market and facilitating investment opportunities, to determine the necessary regulatory framework to introduce such things to the market;

    (j) To ensure that issuers of securities and parties related to the issuance of securities fulfill their disclosure responsibilities, and to monitor and take action to ensure they fulfill their responsibilities to shareholders and investors;

    (k) To obtain and conduct research on information related to securities, and to make the public aware of such matters;

    (l) To investigate matters concerning the securities market whenever the Authority deems it necessary or whenever the Minister instructs.

    (m) To determine the ways in which foreign parties can invest in a type of security permitted under this Act, in accordance with the provisions of Law No. 18/2014 (Business Registration Act).

Financial Matters of the Authority

    (a) (1) The authorized capital of the Authority is six million Rufiyaa. However, this amount can be increased from time to time upon a proposal from the Board and with the approval of the President of the Republic. This capital shall not be reduced except by an amendment to this Act.
    (2) Upon the establishment of the Authority, the Government shall release three million Rufiyaa to the authorized capital of the Authority. In addition to this, the Government shall release to the Authority such amounts as proposed by the Board from time to time and approved by the President of the Republic.

    (b) The income of the Authority is the money received in the ways specified in this Article.
    (1) Money received in relation to licenses issued by the Authority;
    (2) Money received as fines determined by the Authority as per this Act;
    (3) Other money received from within and outside the Maldives in accordance with the laws and regulations of the Maldives;
    (4) Other money received by the Authority in carrying out acts mandated to the Authority under another law; and
    (5) If the Board deems that the operating expenses of the Authority cannot be met from the money received under subsections (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), and (b)(4) of this Article, money received from a budget determined by the Government upon a proposal submitted by the Board at that time.

    (c) (1) A general reserve of the Authority shall be established, and at the end of each financial year, fifty percent of the Authority's net profit for that year shall be credited to the general reserve. This shall be done until the Authority's general reserve equals twice the authorized capital. Thereafter, twenty-five percent of the net profit of each year shall be credited to the general reserve.
    (2) After crediting the portion to be credited to the general reserve from the net profit of each year as specified in subsection (c)(1) of this Article, the remaining portion must be paid to the Government.
    (3) If, at the end of a financial year, the net loss of the Authority exceeds its general reserve, the Government shall issue to the Authority non-transferable, non-interest-bearing securities for the amount of the excess.

Annual Report and Accounts of the Authority

    (a) A report on the operations of the Authority for the past year, along with audited accounts, shall be prepared by the Authority, submitted to the Board, and approved by the Board within 4 months of the end of each financial year. Once the report is approved by the Board, it shall be publicly published.

    (b) The accounts of the Authority shall be audited once every year by an accountant approved by the Auditor General and appointed for this purpose by the Board.

Legal Protection Afforded to the Authority and its Employees and Persons Working for the Authority

    The Authority, its employees, and persons working in the name of the Authority shall not be held liable for any loss that occurs or arises in the course of fulfilling their responsibilities with due care and diligence, in good faith, and in accordance with the law and regulations, when exercising a power vested in the Authority under this Act or regulations made hereunder. However, if a court of law finds such a person guilty of an offense in the matter, that person shall bear the liability for that offense.

Power to Appoint Employees and Officers

    The Board of Directors of the Authority shall employ and dismiss persons required for the effective conduct of the various activities of the Authority, determine the amount and manner of paying salaries, and establish the conditions for employment and performance of duties.

Acts Contrary to the Objectives

    (a) No member of the Board shall, in the performance of their duties in connection with any matter under this Act, seek or accept instructions from any person in the financial, agricultural, industrial, or commercial and business management sectors, or from any other person. However, this Article does not preclude consultation with and obtaining advice from advisors, consultants, and experts appointed to advise the Authority or the Board.

    (b) If a member of this Board has a direct or indirect connection in a business or business-related field, or in a financial, agricultural, industrial, or any other field, in a matter on which the Board has to make a decision, that member must fully disclose the matter to the Board before the commencement of the Board meeting where the matter or a related matter is discussed. That member shall not participate in the meeting while that matter or a related matter is being discussed and decided.

    (c) No member of the Board, or any employee of the Authority, shall, in the performance of their duties under this Act, accept any kind of gift, or anything that provides a benefit, in a manner that may show bias towards a particular party, in their own name, or in the name of their spouse, or their child, or a person with whom they have a business or financial connection.

    (d) Violation of this Article is an offense. The penalty for such an offense is a fine of between 25,000/- Rufiyaa and 100,000/- Rufiyaa or imprisonment for a term of between 3 months and 1 year.

Secrecy

    Except where required by a court of law for legal purposes, or in the course of performing their duties under this Act, it is an offense for any member of the Board, or any employee of the Authority, to disclose to any party any important information of the Authority that has come to their knowledge in the performance of their duties at the Authority but has not been publicly disclosed. The penalty for such an offense is imprisonment for a term of 1 year and a fine of 75,000/- Rufiyaa.

Chapter 2

Instruments for Share Trading

Interim Instrument for Share Trading

    (a) Until a stock exchange licensed under Chapter 3 of this Act is established, the Securities Trading Floor, the share depository, and other activities related to the stock market operated under the Capital Market Division of the Maldives Monetary Authority shall be converted into interim instruments for share trading. And this instrument shall be operated by the Authority. This instrument can be operated for a maximum period of 2 years.

    (b) With the exception of Articles 21 and 26 of this Act, all other articles shall apply to the interim instrument for share trading specified in subsection (a) of this Article.

    (c) For the purpose of properly conducting the business of securities in the interim instrument for share trading as per subsection (a) of this Article, and for the protection of investors in this regard, the Authority may make such regulations as it deems appropriate.

    (d) Upon the establishment of a stock exchange under this Act, the operation of the interim instrument for share trading shall be transferred to the stock exchange in accordance with the regulations mentioned in subsection (c) of this Article.

Matters Related to Government Securities

17-1. (a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act, during the transitional phase for strengthening the government securities market, the Maldives Monetary Authority shall not require a license or permit under this Act to conduct any activity related to government securities or to provide any service related to government securities. And such activities conducted and services provided by the Maldives Monetary Authority during the transitional phase of strengthening the government securities market shall also be exempt from regulation under this Act.
code Code
IGNORE_WHEN_COPYING_START
IGNORE_WHEN_COPYING_END

    
(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act, even after the end of the transitional phase for strengthening the government securities market, the Maldives Monetary Authority shall not require a license or permit under this Act to conduct any activity in the primary market for government securities that is conducted by invitation to specific parties. And, such activities conducted and services provided by the Maldives Monetary Authority shall also be exempt from regulation under this Act.

(c) The conduct of buying and selling securities in the primary market for government securities, the parties that will act as primary dealers for government securities, and the conduct for parties otherwise active in the primary market for government securities shall be determined and enforced by the Maldives Monetary Authority as directed by the Government. And prohibited acts in relation to government securities shall be stated in regulations issued by the Maldives Monetary Authority.

(d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act, a license or permit issued under this Act shall not be required to act as a primary dealer for government securities or to be active in the primary market. And the regulatory articles stated in this Act shall not apply to primary dealers of government securities and other parties active in the primary market.

(e) The duration of the transitional phase for strengthening the government securities market mentioned in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article shall extend for a maximum period of 5 (five) years from the date of commencement of the 2nd Amendment Act to Law No. 2/2006 (Maldives Financial Securities Act). However, this Article does not prevent the Maldives Monetary Authority from bringing the transitional phase to an earlier conclusion after consultation with relevant parties.

  

Establishing and Maintaining a Stock Market

    (a) Except through an interim instrument for the sale of shares licensed as per this Chapter, or a stock exchange licensed as per Chapter 3 of this Act, or under arrangements authorized by the Authority and operated by dealing companies granted a dealing license as per the regulations made by the Authority, no person shall establish a stock market. Nor shall any party represent itself as maintaining such a service or providing the service of such a place.

    (b) Except as stated in subsection (a) of this Article, no party shall assist in the establishment of a stock market.

    (c) Violation of this article is an offense. The penalty for an offense in violation of subsection (a) of this article, if an individual, is a fine of between 75,000/- Rufiyaa and 150,000/- Rufiyaa or imprisonment for a term of between 1 year and 5 years, or both. The penalty for a company or similar body that commits such an offense is a fine of between 100,000/- Rufiyaa and 500,000/- Rufiyaa. And the penalty for a party that violates subsection (b) of this Article is a fine of between 25,000/- Rufiyaa and 100,000/- Rufiyaa.

Providing Assistance to Foreign Regulatory Authorities

    The Authority may provide assistance to foreign regulatory authorities in connection with legal or regulatory matters enforced or maintained by a foreign regulatory authority. And for that purpose, where it is believed that a legal or regulatory matter has been contravened, or where the Authority deems it appropriate that a foreign regulatory authority requires information, the Authority may provide such information, opinion, or assistance as the Authority deems appropriate to foreign regulatory authorities.

Chapter 3

License to Operate a Stock Exchange

Announcement by the Authority to Establish a Stock Exchange

    (a) A stock exchange shall be established and operated by a company licensed by the Authority, in accordance with this Act and regulations made hereunder.

    (b) Notwithstanding the provision in subsection (a) of this Article, if the Authority deems it necessary to establish a government stock exchange to maintain the continuity of securities transactions in the securities market, such a stock exchange may be established. A stock exchange so established shall be exempt from Article 21(a) of this Act.

Establishing a Stock Exchange

    With the advice of the Minister, the Authority may grant permission to a company formed under Law No. 10/96 to establish and operate a stock exchange under this Act. An application to be licensed as a stock exchange can only be made by a company that fulfills the following conditions:

    (a) At least three members of the company applying for the license are companies that will conduct the business of securities separately and competitively from one another.

    (b) The memorandum and articles of association of the company applying for the license are formulated as instructed or approved by the Authority, and are rules that cannot be changed or amended without the permission of the Authority.

    (c) The matters specified in Article 26 of this Act are determined in the rules of the stock exchange.

Stock Exchange Company

    (a) A stock exchange shall be formed under the Maldives Companies Act (Law No. 10/96).

    (b) In forming a stock exchange as per this Act, the objectives of the stock exchange shall be achieved, duties and responsibilities fulfilled, and other powers exercised, in accordance with this Act.

    (c) The stock exchange company shall be granted the right and power to do the following:
    (1) Operate and maintain the stock exchange.
    (2) To settle securities transactions conducted on that stock exchange, to make arrangements based on principles determined by the Board of Directors of the Authority.

Maintaining and Supervising the Stock Exchange Company

    (a) If a company is licensed as a stock exchange, the Authority shall publicly announce that it has granted the license. And if a license granted in this manner is revoked or suspended, that shall also be publicly announced.

    (b) If a stock exchange company contravenes this Act or a regulation made under this Act, the Authority has the power to revoke the license issued to that party by the Authority under Article 21 of this Act.

    (c) If it becomes necessary to revoke a license issued to a stock exchange company as per subsection (a) of this Article, and if the Authority deems it necessary to facilitate the continuous transaction of securities in the market, a temporary license may be granted to a party to whom a dealer's license has been issued, or to another party deemed appropriate by the Authority, to continue the work of a stock exchange in a manner that does not interrupt its operations, based on principles determined by the Board of Directors of the Authority.

    (d) If the Authority revokes a license issued to a stock exchange company as per subsection (b) of this Article, that company has the right to appeal to a court of law to reverse the decision within 30 days of being notified of the decision.

Objectives of the Stock Exchange Company

    The objectives of the stock exchange company are:

    (a) To provide arrangements for buying and selling securities on the stock exchange and for conducting other transactions related to securities.

    (b) To establish and operate a system for taking disciplinary action against parties involved in securities transactions on the stock exchange.

    (c) To establish a settlement service for securities traded on the stock exchange.

    (d) To develop and advance the securities market.

Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Stock Exchange Company

    The memorandum and articles of association of the stock exchange company shall be formulated in a manner approved by the Authority as per the Authority's regulations. The stock exchange company shall make any of its rules or amend any rule only to the extent and in the manner approved by the Authority. And this must be stated in the memorandum and articles of association of the stock exchange company.

Making and Submitting the Stock Exchange Company's Rules to the Authority

    (a) The stock exchange company shall make rules containing appropriate articles regarding the following matters:
    (1) Membership of the company.
    (2) The listing of various companies on the stock exchange and the responsibility of the issuer of listed securities.
    (3) The conditions for transacting in securities.
    (4) The settlement and maintenance of securities matters.

    (b) No rule of the stock exchange company, nor any arrangement or principle established under Article 22(c)(2) of this Act, shall come into effect until that rule, arrangement, or principle is approved by the Authority.

Providing Information of the Stock Exchange Company to the Authority

    The stock exchange company shall provide to the Authority, whenever required by the Authority for the fulfillment of its responsibilities and duties, information regarding the stock exchange company's income, business, securities transactions, and other such matters. Such information shall be maintained by the stock exchange for a period of at least six years in a manner that can be provided whenever required by the Authority.

Power to Issue Directives to the Stock Exchange Company

    (a) The Authority is vested with the discretion and power to issue such directives to the stock exchange company as are necessary for the public interest, in accordance with the regulations.

    (b) Failure by the stock exchange to comply with a directive issued by the Authority under this Article without a reasonable cause is an offense. The penalty for this offense is a fine not exceeding 100,000/- Rufiyaa. In addition, the penalty for each director and each officer of the stock exchange company committing this offense is a fine of between 25,000/- Rufiyaa and 100,000/- Rufiyaa or imprisonment for a term of between 3 months and 1 year together with a fine of 75,000/- Rufiyaa. However, if it can be proven that the act occurred without the knowledge of that director or officer, or not with their consent, that person shall be acquitted of this offense. However, if the matter is something that the person should have known by virtue of their official duties, they shall be exempt from this acquittal.

Failure to Comply with Listing Rules by a Person Required to Do So

    (a) If a person or party required to comply with the listing rules of the stock exchange fails to comply with those rules, or fails to perform a duty required under those rules, the party that suffered a loss as a result may apply for a court order directing the performance of that act or duty. Alternatively, they may file a case in court seeking compensation for the loss incurred. The court shall issue an order only after giving the party to whom the order is directed a reasonable opportunity to respond.

    (b) Every person who issues securities listed on the stock exchange, and every person associated with them, shall act in accordance with the listing rules of the stock exchange.

Trading and Depository System

29-1. (a) The stock exchange shall, within a period determined by the Authority, establish a trading system and a depository system that meet the standards set by the Authority for conducting securities purchase and sale transactions.
code Code
IGNORE_WHEN_COPYING_START
IGNORE_WHEN_COPYING_END

    
(b) The systems mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be established and operated in accordance with the standards and principles determined by the Authority.

(c) For the purpose of developing the Maldivian stock market, the Authority has the discretion to incur expenses necessary for the establishment and operation of a trading system and a depository system that fulfill the conditions stated in subsection (b) of this Article. Unless otherwise determined by the Authority, the owner of these systems shall be the Authority. All fees related to the services provided through the system shall be determined by the Board of Directors of the Authority.

  

Chapter 4

Issuing Licenses to Parties Dealing in Securities

License to Conduct the Business of Dealing in Securities

    (a) No one shall conduct the business of dealing in securities, or represent that they conduct the business of dealing in securities, except a party licensed to conduct the business of dealing in securities under this Article.

    (b) Unless otherwise determined by the Authority, parties licensed under Law No. 24/2010 (Maldives Banking Act), and financial institutions authorized by the Maldives Monetary Authority, shall be deemed to be institutions licensed as dealers and authorized to sell securities and conduct business as dealers. If those institutions conduct any work as dealers, the conditions and responsibilities prescribed for dealers under this Act shall also be binding on them. And the Authority has the power to take action in relation to those matters in accordance with the law and regulations.

License Issued to Parties Representing Securities Dealers

    (a) No party shall represent a securities dealer unless that party is licensed for that purpose by the Authority under this Act.

    (b) A license to represent a securities dealer under this Article shall be issued to a person who has completed 18 years of age.

Investment Adviser's License and License to Represent an Investment Adviser

    (a) No party shall act as an investment adviser or represent themselves as a party acting as an investment adviser, except a party licensed to give investment advice under this Act.

    (b) An investment adviser's license shall be issued to a company registered in the Maldives that meets the standards specified in the regulations made by the Authority.

    (c) A license to represent an investment adviser shall be issued to parties who have completed 18 (eighteen) years of age and who fulfill the conditions specified in the regulations made by the Authority.

License to Operate an Investment Fund or Other Such Scheme as a Fund

    (a) An investment fund or any other such scheme as a fund may be operated under this Act only by parties licensed under this Act in the manner specified in this Act.

    (b) For the purpose of this Act, an investment fund or other such scheme operated as a fund is stated as a fund or such scheme established to allow the public or a specific class of investors to participate in the ownership of any kind of property, including money, or a part thereof, in a manner that yields a profit from such property, or allows sharing in the profit derived from investing in such property, or for the purpose of receiving, holding, managing, or selling such property or the profit derived from it.

    (c) No one shall act as a fund manager or represent themselves as a person who carries out the work of a fund manager, except a party licensed to operate an investment fund or other such scheme as a fund under this Act.

Conditions for Issuing a License

    (a) (1) A securities dealer's license, an investment adviser's license, or a fund management license shall be issued or renewed only to parties that meet the financial standards specified in this Act and regulations made hereunder.
    (2) A license shall be issued under this Act only to persons who fulfill the conditions as per this Act and who have not been convicted of a breach of trust or fraud and deceit within the past ten years. If the party to whom a license is issued is a company, no director of that company shall be a person who has been convicted of such an offense within the past ten years.
    (3) If the party to whom a license is issued under this Act is an individual, that party shall not be an undischarged bankrupt in the Maldives or elsewhere. If the party is a company, it shall not be a company that has been wound up or is designated for winding up.

    (b) The Authority may, when it deems important, after giving notice in writing, change the conditions of a license or determine additional conditions in relation to a license.

Other Matters Concerning the Issuing and Renewal of Licenses

    (a) A license may be renewed under this Act subject to conditions determined by the Authority.

    (b) It is an offense to knowingly or willfully give a false or misleading statement, or to submit with some information omitted, when applying for a license or for the renewal of a license under this Act. The penalty for a person who commits such an offense is a fine of between 25,000/- Rufiyaa and 100,000/- Rufiyaa, or imprisonment for a term of between 3 months and 1 year together with a fine of 75,000/- Rufiyaa.

    (c) If the Authority, upon an application for a license or renewal of a license, does not issue the license, an appeal may be made to the Minister within 30 days of that decision. The Minister's decision in this matter shall be final. The Authority must act upon that decision.

    (d) If the Authority revokes a permit, an appeal may be made to the court within 30 days of that decision.

Duration of Licenses

    Unless otherwise stated in this Act, the duration of a permit and license issued or renewed under this Act, except for a permit issued to a Stock Exchange and a Securities Depository, shall be 5 (five) years from the date the permit or license was issued.

Revocation or Temporary Suspension of a License

    (a) A license that has been issued shall be revoked if any of the following circumstances arise:
    (1) If the license was issued to an individual, upon their death or their being declared bankrupt.
    (2) If a licensed company is designated for winding up, the company must notify the Authority three months prior to its winding up.

    (b) A license issued under this Act may be revoked by the Authority if any of the following circumstances occur:
    (1) If the license was issued to an individual:
    (a) A debt is proven against them and they have not complied with a court judgment ordering the payment of that debt.
    (b) After obtaining a license under this Act, they do not conduct the licensed business, or they cease to conduct the business they were carrying on under that license.
    (c) They are declared bankrupt in any country.
    (d) If a person represents a securities dealer, and within one month from the date the license issued to the party they represent is revoked, they do not begin representing another party licensed to deal in securities.
    (e) The Authority believes that the licensee is not fulfilling their responsibilities fully, truthfully, and fairly.
    (f) The licensee is convicted of an offense of fraud and deceit.
    (g) The licensee contravenes any article of this Act, or contravenes the conditions of the license.
    (h) The licensee is sentenced to imprisonment, exile, or house arrest for a period longer than six months in a judgment.
    (2) If the license was issued to a company:
    (a) The company is designated for winding up as per Article 93 of the Companies Act, or the process of winding up the company is underway.
    (b) The company fails to comply with a court judgment to pay a debt proven against it.
    (c) A receiver or a receiver and manager is appointed over the company's property by a court or the company's creditors in the Maldives or in another country.
    (d) An agreement is reached between the company and its creditors regarding the company's debts.
    (e) The company ceases to carry on the business it was authorized to conduct under this Act.
    (f) The Authority believes that the licensed company, or any of its directors or employees, is not fulfilling their responsibilities fully, truthfully, with integrity, and fairly.
    (g) The licensed company contravenes any article of this Act, or a regulation made under this Act, or the conditions of the permit.

    (c) If a circumstance such as those specified in subsection (b) of this Article arises, the Authority may, instead of revoking the issued license, suspend the license for a specified period. The Authority may terminate such a suspension at any time.

    (d) As a result of the revocation or suspension of a license issued under this Act:
    (1) Any agreement or transaction made by that party regarding the buying and selling of securities, whether before or after the revocation or suspension of the license, shall not be deemed void.
    (2) No right or liability conferred under any such agreement or any other transaction shall be diminished.

Register of Licenses

    (a) The Authority shall establish and maintain a register of all licenses issued under this Act.

    (b) The register shall contain the following information:
    (1) The name of the licensee.
    (2) The business address of the licensee.
    (3) The business name of the licensee.
    (4) The type of business for which the license is issued.
    (5) The period for which the license has been issued or renewed and the expiry date.

    (c) In accordance with regulations made under this Act, arrangements shall be made for the register to be inspected and for a copy of a part of it to be made and certified by the Authority, upon payment of a fee determined by the Authority.

Underwriter's License

    (a) An underwriter's license shall be issued by the Authority upon application for an underwriter's license by a financial institution or a person who deals in securities.

    (b) If the applicant for an underwriter's license is a party that has the financial capability to underwrite securities and has fulfilled the conditions stated in the regulations made under this Act, an underwriter's license may be issued to that party with conditions determined by the Authority.

Permission for a Bank Licensed by the Maldives Monetary Authority to Conduct Underwriting Transactions

    Notwithstanding any specific provision in this Act, a bank licensed by the Maldives Monetary Authority may, under conditions determined by the Authority, conduct underwriting transactions and make agreements for underwriting securities without a license to deal in securities or an underwriter's license.

Permit to Conduct Other Securities-Related Services

    With the exception of the types of licenses specified below, other securities-related services specified in regulations made under this Act, such as credit rating services, custodian services, services for safeguarding the rights of participants in the securities business for financial institutions, and other services as may be determined under that regulation, shall only be provided with a permit issued for that purpose by the Authority.

    (a) License to conduct the business of dealing in securities;
    (b) License issued to parties representing securities dealers;
    (c) Investment adviser's license;
    (d) License to operate an investment fund or other such scheme as a fund; and
    (e) Underwriter's license.

Investment in Securities by Foreign Parties

41-1. (a) Foreign parties may invest in securities of the Maldives in accordance with this Article.
code Code
IGNORE_WHEN_COPYING_START
IGNORE_WHEN_COPYING_END

    
(b) A foreign party may invest in the Maldives only in the type of securities permitted under the regulations made under this Act, and in the manner specified in that regulation.

(c) The regulation made under subsection (b) of this Article shall include the following matters:
    (1) The securities in which foreign parties are permitted to invest and the sectors or conditions under which they can invest in those securities;
    (2) The conditions to be fulfilled by foreign parties who will invest in the permitted securities;
    (3) The procedures and related principles to be fulfilled by foreign parties when buying and selling permitted securities in the capital market.

(d) The Authority shall determine the securities in which foreign parties are permitted to invest under the regulation specified in subsection (b) of this Article, with due regard to the sectors in which foreign parties are not permitted to invest in the Maldives as determined under the Foreign Investment Act. And the principles for permitting investment in securities of the type specified in Article 6(b) of Law No. 18/2014 (Business Registration Act) among such permitted securities shall be determined by the Authority within the scope determined in that law.

(e) The Authority shall establish a monitoring and compliance mechanism as per the regulations made under this Act to ensure that transactions for buying and selling securities permitted for investment by foreign parties under this Article in the capital market are conducted in accordance with Law No. 18/2014 (Business Registration Act), this Act, and the principles laid down in regulations made hereunder.

  

Chapter 5

Rules for Buying and Selling Securities

Disclosure of Interest in Securities

    (a) If a party licensed under this Act gives advice, directly or indirectly, concerning securities or a particular class of securities, that advising party, or a party associated with it, must clearly state in that advice whether or not they have an interest in buying, selling, or any other interest in the securities mentioned in the advice. This statement must be clearly visible, in the same manner as other writings included in the advice.

    (b) In a claim resulting from a violation of subsection (a) of this Article, if the defendant in the claim can prove that at the time of giving the advice as specified in subsection (a) of this Article, they did not know, or had no reason to know, of the following matters, they shall not be guilty:
    (1) That they had any interest in those securities, or that their interest was involved in the buying and selling of securities of that class.
    (2) That they or a party associated with them had any interest in their securities, or that their interest was involved in the buying and selling of securities of that class.

    (c) For the purpose of subsections (a) and (b) of this Article:
    (1) The phrase "having an interest in the sale of securities" includes direct and indirect financial benefits and other advantages received or that may be received as a result of such securities.
    (2) Without prejudice to what is stated in subsection (b)(2) of this Article, if an underwriting agreement has been made with respect to a security, it shall be considered that the party has an interest in the buying and selling of that security.
    (3) For the purpose of this article, the phrase "associated party" shall not be considered an associated party if the two parties are connected solely by virtue of being a director of a legal personality, whether or not those two personalities are parties that deal or do not deal in securities. However, if an advice has been given or a document has been sent jointly by the two parties, or based on an arrangement between the two parties, it will be included in the meaning of an associated party.

    (d) If a party licensed under this Act has offered to buy, or has bought, securities with the intention of selling all or part of those securities to the public, any advice can be given before selling those securities only after that party has disclosed in writing or orally that the securities were acquired for the purpose of resale.

    (e) If a party licensed under this Act has offered to buy securities, or has given money as an offer to buy, because all or part of a security was not offered for purchase, or money was not paid as an offer for purchase, under an underwriting agreement or a sub-underwriting agreement, then the offer to sell that security must be made through a stock exchange. And if any kind of advice is given regarding that security, it must be stated that the security is one that the party has received, or is required to buy, under an underwriting or sub-underwriting agreement.

    (f) A circular or other document or written offer or advice, such as that specified in subsections (a), (d), or (e) of this Article, sent by a party licensed under this Act to any party, must bear the signature of the following party:
    (a) If an individual, that person.
    (b) If a legal personality, a person authorized by its Board of Directors.
    (c) If a partnership, a partner of that partnership.

    (g) If a securities dealer, or a party representing them, sends a circular or other document, or written offer, or advice, such as that specified in subsections (a), (d), or (e) of this Article, a copy of such document must be signed as per subsection (f) of this Article and kept by that party for a period of six years from the date of signature.

    (h) The term "offer" in this Article includes, in addition to an offer, a period of time given to a person to offer to buy securities, directly or indirectly.

Recommendations on Securities Trading

    (a) A party licensed to give advice on securities trading under this Act shall not give advice without a reasonable basis to a party who might act in accordance with such advice.

    (b) If a securities trading adviser, in giving advice, considers the investment objectives, financial situation, and other needs of the person receiving the advice, obtains all relevant information to make the advice sound, and bases the advice on the above matters, then the advice shall be deemed to be advice given with a reasonable basis in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article.

    (c) If a securities trading adviser gives advice contrary to subsection (a) of this Article, upon which it is reasonable to act or refrain from acting based on that advice and other relevant circumstances, and the person to whom the advice was given acts in accordance with the advice and suffers any loss as a result, the party who gave the advice on that securities trading shall be liable for that loss.

    (d) In this Article:
    (1) "A party who gives advice on buying and selling securities" refers to a securities dealer, a party representing them, or an investment adviser.
    (2) The phrase "giving advice" includes advice given directly or indirectly.

Power to Prohibit Advertisement

    (a) The Authority may prohibit the publication of an advertisement or any other advertisement related to the securities therein in the following circumstances:
    (1) The advertisement contains something misleading about the securities offered or a main matter concerning those securities; or
    (2) The advertisement contains something contrary to a registered prospectus to which the advertisement refers; or
    (3) The advertisement is contrary to this Act or the Companies Act.

    (b) An order issued under this Article may include such articles and conditions as the Authority deems fit in accordance with this Act.

Power to Register, Temporarily Suspend, and Revoke a Prospectus

    (a) A prospectus shall be issued only after it has been submitted to the Authority and registered with the Authority.

    (b) If the Authority believes that a material part of a registered prospectus is false, misleading, or incomplete (whether the omission was made at the time of registration of the prospectus or thereafter), or is contrary to this Act, the Authority may act upon that prospectus in the following manner:
    (1) If the Authority deems it desirable to temporarily suspend such a prospectus, suspend the prospectus for a period not exceeding one month.
    (2) After giving the issuer of such a prospectus a notice of not less than seven days to rectify the matter, if that party fails to rectify the matter, the Authority may revoke that prospectus.

    (c) If a registered prospectus is suspended by the Authority under this Article:
    (1) The reason for doing so shall be promptly notified to the issuer of the prospectus and the Registrar of Companies.
    (2) The Authority, the Registrar, or an officer or employee thereof shall not disclose to any other party the fact of the temporary suspension of the prospectus, or any information related thereto (except upon revocation of the prospectus or in the course of criminal proceedings).

    (d) Without contradicting subsection (b) of this Article, if a registered prospectus is temporarily suspended:
    (1) The company shall not sell any securities agreed to be purchased, whether before or after the suspension. And
    (2) Money paid as an offer to purchase securities in connection with that prospectus, except for money received for securities sold before the suspension, may be retained.

    (e) If a registered prospectus is revoked by the Authority, the Authority shall, after notifying the issuer of the prospectus and the Registrar of the revocation and the reason for the revocation, promptly announce it publicly.

    (f) If a registered prospectus is revoked:
    (1) The company shall not sell any securities agreed to be purchased, whether before or after the revocation. And
    (2) The money retained under subsection (d)(2) of this Article, and the money paid as an offer to purchase securities by the parties who paid it, shall be promptly returned to that party.

    (g) If the money to be returned to a party who has offered to purchase securities, or has paid money as an offer, is not returned within one month from the date the prospectus is revoked, the issuer of the prospectus shall be liable to repay that money with a service charge, as determined in the regulations made under this Act, from the date the offer to purchase securities was received by the issuer, or from the date the money paid as an offer was received. If the issuer of the prospectus is a company, all its directors shall be jointly and severally liable.

    (h) A director of the issuer of a prospectus shall not be liable under subsection (g) of this Article if they can prove that the failure to repay an offer to purchase shares was not due to their negligence or that it was not due to their acting improperly.

Chapter 6

"Register of Interests in Securities"

Parties to Whom This Section Applies

    The following parties must comply with the articles in this Chapter.
    (1) Securities dealers;
    (2) Parties representing securities dealers;
    (3) Investment advisers;
    (4) Financial journalists and reporters;
    (5) Parties holding a permit issued under Articles 30, 31, and 39;
    (6) In addition to permit holders, directors and management of listed companies.

Maintaining a Register of Interests or Connections in Securities

    (a) Parties to whom this section applies must maintain, at their principal place of business, a register of securities in which they have an interest or connection, in the prescribed manner.

    (b) Parties to whom this section applies must, within 15 days of the interest arising, state in the register the details of the security in which they have an interest or a connection, and the details of that interest.

    (c) (1) If there is a change in the interest of a party to whom this section applies in a security, the details of that change, the date of the change, and the reason for the change must be stated in the register.
    (2) The change must be written in the register in accordance with this Article within 15 days of the change occurring.
    (3) For the purpose of this Article, if a security is bought or sold, it shall be considered a change in the interest of that party in that security.

Financial Correspondents

    A person can work as a financial correspondent only if they are a party licensed to give advice on financial matters.

Providing Information about Financial Correspondents to the Authority

    (a) If the Authority, or parties authorized by the Authority, sends a written notice requesting the name and address of a financial correspondent who prepared, or participated in the preparation of, a report or similar writing published in a newspaper or magazine, the party to whom the notice was sent must provide it to the sending party within the period specified in the notice.

    (b) A newspaper or magazine that published such a writing shall be responsible for providing such information without a valid excuse upon a directive issued under subsection (a) of this Article.

Disclosure of the Register

    (a) If requested by the Authority or a person authorized by the Authority, the register required to be maintained under Article 47 of this Act must be disclosed by the party required to maintain the register. And if the Authority, or a person authorized by the Authority, so desires, a copy of the register may be made.

    (b) It is an offense for any party mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article to fail to show the register, or to refuse to allow a copy to be made, as stated in subsection (a).

    (c) Information about securities transactions contained in a copy of the register received by the Authority in connection with subsection (a) of this Article may be disclosed for the public benefit to a party that the Authority deems should receive such information.

Chapter 7

Maintaining Accounts and Auditing

Responsibility to Submit Accounts and Information

    Every party conducting a business or an activity with a permit under this Act must submit to the Authority, in the manner prescribed in the regulations, the financial accounts and other information that the Authority directs to be submitted in relation to their business or activity, and such information as stated in the regulations made under this Act.

Accounts to be Maintained by Securities Dealers

    (a) Every securities dealer shall maintain the following documents:
    (1) Documents containing accounts that truthfully state and show the financial position of the securities dealing business they conduct and the transactions of that business.
    (2) Documents containing accounts necessary to truthfully prepare the profit and loss account and balance sheets that they are required to prepare.
    (3) Documents containing their accounts in such a manner that the profit and loss account and balance sheets of the securities dealing business they conduct can be easily and properly audited.

    (b) A securities dealer shall be deemed to have maintained the documents mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article in the manner mentioned in subsection (a) if the documents are maintained in the following manner:
    (1) The documents are in Dhivehi or English, or are in a form that can be made available in Dhivehi or English, or can be converted into written Dhivehi or English, whenever required.
    (2) They are available with the following details:
    (a) Details of all money received by the securities dealer and all money spent by them, including money received into and spent from the account maintained as per Article 53 of this Act.
    (b) Details of all securities bought and sold on their behalf, the money due for those securities, the fees payable in connection with those securities, and the details of the buyer of each security and the seller of each security.
    (c) Details of all income received by the securities dealer as commission, interest, and in other ways, and all expenses incurred.
    (d) Details of the dealer's money, property, debts, and other liabilities, including contingent liabilities arising from agreements made by the securities dealer.
    (e) Details of securities owned by the securities dealer, details of the parties to whom the securities or their documents of title are entrusted, and whether they are pledged or not if they are in the custody of another party.
    (f) Details of securities for which the dealer or a person appointed by and under the direction of the dealer is responsible, other than securities owned by the securities dealer, the party to whom the securities or their documents of title are entrusted, the entrusting party, whether they are entrusted for safekeeping, and details of whether they are pledged with another party.
    (g) If a security is being traded on two exchanges, and the securities dealer has conducted a transaction of buying a security on one exchange and selling it on another, the details of that transaction.
    (h) Details of all underwriting transactions conducted by the securities dealer.
    (3) Information about transactions is available in such a way that the details of each transaction conducted by the securities dealer can be known separately.
    (4) The date or period of each transaction conducted by the securities dealer is known.
    (5) A copy of the receipt stating that the securities delivered by the securities dealers have been received is available, showing the name of the party to whom the securities are registered.

    (c) In addition to the information mentioned in subsection (b) of this Article, a securities dealer shall keep documents containing accounts in such a way that all transactions conducted with or in relation to the following parties, or any of them, can be known separately:
    (1) Clients of the securities dealer.
    (2) The securities dealer.
    (3) Other securities dealers in the Maldives.
    (4) Securities dealers outside the Maldives.
    (5) Employees of the securities dealer.

    (d) All documents containing accounts and other information maintained under this Article shall be deemed to be accounts or information maintained by the securities dealer or with their permission.

    (e) If a securities dealer maintains their documents containing accounts outside the Maldives, they shall send copies of the documents containing the accounts and other information necessary to truthfully prepare the profit and loss account and balance sheets that they are required to prepare, to a place in the Maldives and make arrangements for those copies to be kept at that place.

Separate Bank Accounts

    (a) Every securities dealer shall maintain the money received for purchasing securities and the money received for selling securities in a separate account opened for that purpose.

    (b) The money kept in the bank account mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall not be used except for the following purposes:
    (1) To pay the money due from this account to the person entitled to receive it, or to a person appointed by them for that purpose.
    (2) To pay the fee for dealing in securities and the money payable in connection with that transaction.

    (c) The money in the account mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall not be used to pay a debt of a securities dealer, or to pay money under a court order to pay such a debt.

Appointment of an Auditor

    Every securities dealer shall do the following things in the following manner:
    (a) Appoint an accountant approved by the Auditor General of the Maldives to audit the accounts of the securities dealing business.
    (b) Submit the auditor's report to the Authority before the expiration of 3 (three) months from the end of each financial year.

Duties of the Auditor

    (a) If an auditor of a securities dealer becomes aware of any of the following matters in the course of their work, they shall promptly report it to the Authority:
    (1) Matters that, in the auditor's opinion, could affect the financial position of the securities dealer.
    (2) Matters that, in the auditor's opinion, contravene any article of this Act, or are believed to be an act of fraud, deceit, or breach of trust.
    (3) Irregularities that could cause loss to the money and property of the clients of the securities dealer, and irregularities that could affect their accounts.

    (b) No civil or criminal action shall be brought against an auditor for anything done in good faith in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article.

Chapter 8

Register of Parties Who Have Acquired More Than 5% of a Company's Shares

Register of Parties Who Have Acquired More Than 5% of a Company's Shares

    (a) Every public company selling shares in the Maldives shall have a register of parties who, directly or indirectly, control more than 5% of that company's shares. This register shall contain the information mentioned in subsection (b) of this Article regarding each share acquired by the shareholder and each share in which the shareholder has a direct or indirect interest.

    (b) The register mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall contain the following information:
    (1) The shareholder's name and address;
    (2) The number, class, and face value of each share in which the shareholder has an interest;
    (3) If the party who has acquired more than 5% of the shares is not the owner of the shares, the name of the owner of the shares;
    (4) The interest of that shareholder in the share and its duration, if any;
    (5) The date on which the shareholder's interest in the share was acquired;
    (6) The date on which the shareholder's interest in the share was disposed of, or if there has been any change in the shareholder's interest in the share, the date of that change.

    (c) In accordance with subsection (d) of this Article, any party who has acquired more than 5% (five percent) of the shares, or whose acquired shareholding has increased or decreased by a whole multiple of 5% (five percent), or any party for whom any other event has occurred that requires their name to be included in the register, shall notify the company in writing of the event with the details as per subsection (b) of this Article within 14 (fourteen) days of the event occurring.

    (d) Parties who have acquired more than 5% of the shares at the time this Act comes into force shall submit to the company as specified in subsection (c) of this Article.
    (1) Even if a person ceases to be a party who has acquired more than 5% of the shares, a name previously included in the register of parties who have acquired more than 5% of the shares shall not be removed from that register.
    (2) If a person ceases to be a party who has acquired more than 5% of the shares, information related to a subsequent event may be included in the register.

    (e) Parties required to submit information in accordance with subsections (c) and (d) of this Article must submit a copy of the information required to be submitted to the company to the Authority on the same day.

    (f) If a party required to submit information in accordance with subsection (e) of this Article requests the Authority to extend the period for submitting the information, the Authority has the discretion to extend the period.

    (g) Every company mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall maintain the information required to be submitted to the company by the parties required to act in accordance with subsections (c) and (d) of this Article in a manner directed by the Authority.

    (h) The register of parties who have acquired more than 5% of the company's shares shall be maintained at the same place as that register, in accordance with Article 16 of the Maldives Companies Act.

    (i) The receipt by any company of a notice of a right of any party with respect to a share, or the need for that company to clarify information with respect to that share, as a result of doing something specified in this Act, shall not be presumed.

    (j) If the transfer of shares of a company mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article to its directors and their entry in the register would cause that director to become a party who has acquired more than 5% of the shares of that company, or if it appears that there are reasons to believe that they would become such a party, this matter shall be brought to the attention of that party by that company in order to act as per subsection (a) of this Article.

Chapter 9

Prohibited Transactions

Prohibition of Securities Dealing by a Connected Person

    (a) This Article shall apply to the following parties:
    (1) Every party whose securities are listed on the official list of a stock exchange.
    (2) Every public company established under the Companies Act.

    (b) If a person who is, or has at any time been, connected with a company to which this Article applies possesses information relating to that company which is not generally available and which, if it were generally available, might materially affect the price of its securities, that person shall not deal in those securities.

    (c) If a person who is, or has at any time been, connected with a company to which this Article applies, has, by reason of that connection, information about another company of the following kind, they shall not deal in the securities of the company to which the information relates:
    (1) Information that is not generally available and which, if disclosed, would be likely to materially affect the price of that company's securities, and
    (2) Information about a transaction, actual or contemplated, involving both companies or one of them and securities of the other, or a transaction by one company concerning the securities of the other.

    (d) Even if a person who possesses information such as that in subsections (b) and (c) of this Article is not prohibited from dealing in securities under subsection (b) or (c) because the information, if it were made public, would be likely to materially affect the price of the securities, such a person shall not deal in those securities in the following circumstances:
    (1) The information was obtained by them, directly or indirectly, from a person who is prohibited from dealing in securities under subsection (b) or (c) of this Article, and the recipient knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the person who provided the information is such a person; and
    (2) There was a connection between the person who provided the information and the person who received it at the time the information was received, or an arrangement was made for the purpose of dealing in securities by either or both of them, to exchange information specified in subsections (b) and (c) of this Article.

    (e) A person prohibited from dealing in securities under subsection (b) or (c) of this Article shall not, under any circumstances, deal in those securities through another person.

    (f) If a person is prohibited from dealing in securities under subsection (b), (c), or (d) of this Article by reason of information they possess, they shall not disclose that information to another person in the following circumstances:
    (1) The security is one that is permitted to be traded on a stock exchange in the Maldives or outside the Maldives.
    (2) The person giving the information knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the recipient will use the information to deal in those securities, either themselves or through another person.

    (g) A company shall not deal in securities at a time when an officer of that company is prohibited from dealing in them under subsection (b), (c), or (d) of this Article.

    (h) Even if a company is prohibited from dealing in securities under subsection (g) of this Article solely because of information possessed by an officer of that company, subsection (g) does not preclude the company from dealing in securities in the following circumstances:
    (1) The decision to carry out the transaction was made by a person other than the officer who possessed the information.
    (2) Arrangements were in place to ensure that the information would not be communicated to the person who made the decision to deal in the securities, and no advice was given to that person by the person who possessed such information.
    (3) That person did not possess such information, and no such advice was given.

    (i) If an officer of a company to which this Article applies possesses information obtained by them in the course of performing their duties as an officer of that company, and this information was obtained in connection with a proposed transaction by their company concerning the securities of another company, subsection (g) of this Article does not prohibit their company from dealing in the securities of the other company solely by reason of that information.

    (j) For the purposes of this Article, a "person connected with a company" means, if an individual:
    (1) An officer of that company or a related company.
    (2) A person who controls more than 5% of the shares of that company or a related company.
    (3) A person in a position where it is reasonable to expect them to have access to information such as that specified in subsections (b) and (c) of this Article because of:
    (a) A professional or business relationship existing between themselves or their employer, or a company in which they are an employee or officer, and that company or a related company.
    (b) Their being an officer of a person who controls more than 5% of the shares of that company or a related company.

    (k) A person licensed under Articles 30 and 31 of this Act is not prohibited from dealing in the securities of a company if the following conditions are met:
    (1) The licensed person has dealt in the transaction as an agent for another person under a specific instruction from that other person to do so.
    (2) The licensed person has not given any advice to the other party concerning dealing in securities of the same class as those securities, or concerning a right or interest related to such securities.
    (3) The other party is not a person connected with the licensed person in any way.

    (l) In a criminal prosecution brought against a person for a transaction conducted while possessing information in contravention of this Article, they shall be found guilty unless it can be proven to the court that the other party to such a transaction knew, or it was reasonable for them to know, of such information before the transaction took place.

    (m) For the purpose of subsection (i) of this Article, an "officer" of a company includes the following persons:
    (1) Directors, secretaries, executive officers, managers, and other employees of that company.
    (2) A receiver and/or manager of the company's property.
    (3) A manager of the company appointed by a court order.
    (4) Persons in charge of the winding-up of the company.
    (5) A person appointed to manage the company under an agreement or arrangement between the company and another party.

    (n) Violation of this Article is an offense. The penalty for such an offense, if an individual, is a fine of between 25,000/- Rufiyaa and 100,000/- Rufiyaa or imprisonment for a term of between 3 months and 1 year, or both. The penalty for a company or similar body that commits such an offense is a fine of between 50,000/- Rufiyaa and 200,000/- Rufiyaa.

    (o) If any person gains a benefit from a securities transaction conducted in contravention of this Article, every person who obtained that benefit shall be liable for the following:
    (1) For any loss suffered by any other person as a result of obtaining that benefit;
    (2) For any profit obtained or loss avoided by them to the company which issued, or made available, the securities;
    (3) A fine determined by a court of law, not exceeding the greater of the following two amounts:
    (a) The consideration given for the purchase of that security or its equivalent, or
    (b) Three times the profit gained or loss avoided in the dealing of the security.

    (p) If a loss or benefit mentioned in subsection (o) of this Article is due to a profit made from a securities transaction, the amount of that loss or benefit shall be considered the difference between the following two prices:
    (1) The price at which the transaction was conducted; and
    (2) The price which the court hearing the claim for compensation for the loss or benefit believes the security would have had in the market at that time, if the information used to obtain that profit was generally available information at that time.

    (q) The Authority may bring an action in connection with a transaction involving a loss or profit as mentioned in subsection (o) of this Article, in order to maintain the confidence of the securities market.

    (r) An action to recover a loss or profit mentioned in subsection (o) of this Article cannot be brought after the expiry of the first of the following two periods:
    (1) Three years from the transaction related to the claim; or
    (2) 12 months from the date the loss or the claim for recovery of the profit became known to the party who suffered the loss or the party bringing the action.

    (s) If a criminal charge is brought against any person for a transaction conducted while possessing information in contravention of this Article, any civil case pending at that time or subsequently filed in connection with that transaction may proceed only after the court in which the criminal case is filed has decided on that case.

    (t) Subsection (r) of this Article does not affect any liability that may arise under any other law.

    (u) For the purpose of subsection (o) of this Article, the term "party" includes a company.

Fraudulently Inducing Investment

    (a) It is an offense to fraudulently induce or attempt to induce another person to do the following:
    (1) To acquire or dispose of securities, or to agree to purchase securities, or to participate in, or offer to participate in, an underwriting agreement; or
    (2) To participate in, or offer to participate in, an agreement to secure a profit for any person from securities or from a change in the price of securities.

    (b) The penalty for an offense such as that mentioned in this Article is a fine of between 25,000/- Rufiyaa and 100,000/- Rufiyaa or imprisonment for a term of between 3 months and 1 year together with a fine of 75,000/- Rufiyaa.

    (c) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this Article, committing fraud and deceit includes the following:
    (1) Making any statement, promise, or forecast that is misleading, false, or deceptive, knowing it to be so.
    (2) Dishonestly concealing any material fact.
    (3) Recklessly, without due care, making a statement, promise, or forecast that is misleading, false, or deceptive.

False Statements and Transactions

    (a) It is an offense for any person, knowingly or recklessly, to do any of the following:
    (1) To cause any change in the price of securities by spreading false information.
    (2) To be included in the official list of a stock exchange by using a false statement.
    (3) To create a false or misleading appearance of active trading in securities included in a stock exchange company.

    (b) The penalty for an offense such as that mentioned in this Article is a fine of between 25,000/- Rufiyaa and 100,000/- Rufiyaa, or imprisonment for a term of between 3 months and 1 year together with a fine of 75,000/- Rufiyaa.

Misleading Documents

    (a) It is an offense to distribute or facilitate the distribution of a document knowing that it contains a matter related to the following:
    (1) Issuing, inducing the issuance of, or attempting to induce the issuance of a statement that is misleading, false, or deceptive.
    (2) Information that is believed to directly or indirectly guide a person receiving such information to commit an act mentioned in subsection (a)(1) of this Article.

    (b) The penalty for a person who commits an offense such as that mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article is a fine of between 25,000/- Rufiyaa and 100,000/- Rufiyaa, or imprisonment for a term of between 3 months and 1 year together with a fine of 75,000/- Rufiyaa.

    (c) It is an offense to possess a document such as that mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article, knowing it to be such a document. The penalty for such an offense is a fine of between 10,000/- Rufiyaa and 75,000/- Rufiyaa.

Attempting to Manipulate the Stock Market

    (a) No person shall, by means of two or more transactions in the securities of a company, directly or indirectly, in any way participate in to induce another person to purchase or agree to purchase securities of a company or a related entity through fraud and deceit, and thereby cause the price of the securities of that company or a related company, which are being sold on the stock exchange, to rise in an artificial or false manner, or cause the price of the securities to fall in such a manner, or cause the price of the securities to be maintained in an artificial manner.

    (b) Wherever a transaction relating to the securities of a company is mentioned in this Article, it includes the following:
    (1) Offering to sell or buy the securities of that company.
    (2) Directly or indirectly inviting an offer to sell or buy the securities of that company.

    (c) Violation of this Article is an offense. The penalty for such an offense is a fine of between 25,000/- Rufiyaa and 100,000/- Rufiyaa or imprisonment for a term of between 3 months and 1 year together with a fine of 75,000/- Rufiyaa.

Chapter 10

Miscellaneous

Other Penalties

    (a) If a violation of this Act is an act for which a specific penalty is not prescribed in another article of this Act, the penalty for a person who committed such an act is a fine of between 25,000/- Rufiyaa and 100,000/- Rufiyaa or imprisonment for a term of between 3 months and 1 year together with a fine of 75,000/- Rufiyaa.

    (b) Violation of any regulation made under this Act is an offense. If a specific penalty is not prescribed in that regulation, the penalty for a person who commits such an offense is a fine not exceeding 15,000/- Rufiyaa.

    (c) Every person who, without reasonable cause, contravenes a directive issued by the Authority under this Act shall be guilty. The penalty for a person who commits such an offense is a fine not exceeding 15,000/- Rufiyaa. And the court may order that party to comply with the Authority's directive.

    (d) If any regulation made under this Act is contravened, or if a directive issued by the Authority under this Act is contravened without reasonable cause, the Authority has the power to fine that party as per subsections (b) and (c) of this Article.

Regulations

    (a) The regulations necessary for the implementation of this Act shall be made by the Authority.

    (b) Without prejudice to the power in subsection (a) of this Article, regulations may be made regarding the following matters:
    (1) Regarding the charging of fees and various other charges.
    (2) Regarding the conduct of matters related to the issuance and listing of securities.
    (3) Regarding the provision of services for the settlement and clearing of securities.
    (4) Regarding the supervision and conduct of matters related to the buying and selling of securities.
    (5) Regarding the conduct of activities by securities dealers, parties representing them, and investment advisers, and the determination and supervision of standards for such matters.
    (6) Regarding the establishment and operation of a compensation fund for parties who suffer financial loss from an act of breach of trust, or fraud and deceit, committed by a licensed securities dealer, or a party representing them, or an investment adviser, or an employee of such a party, or an employee or officer of a stock exchange.
    (7) In addition to the matters mentioned in subsection (b)(5) of this Article, regarding the obtaining of fidelity insurance by licensed securities dealers, investment advisers, and parties issued with a license or any other permit under this Act, in accordance with articles and conditions approved by the Authority.
    (8) Regarding all matters related to the issuance and trading of Islamic securities.
    (9) Regarding credit rating agencies.
    (10) Regarding custodian services.
    (11) Regarding the establishment, operation, and management of collective investment schemes.
    (12) As permitted by the laws of the Maldives, to develop a sandbox regulatory framework required for matters to be introduced to expand and develop the capital market, and to make regulations and principles required to regulate innovative instruments such as crowdfunding and crypto-assets.
    (13) To make regulations related to the corporate governance of parties regulated by the Authority under this Act.
    (14) Regulation concerning investment in securities by foreign investors.

    (c) Regulations granting powers to conduct investigations on behalf of the Authority, to summon persons to give evidence, to inspect and search premises and books, the power to prohibit trading, and other necessary powers shall be made by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury.

Commencement

    This Act shall come into force on a date determined by the President of the Republic. Different parts or articles of this Act may be determined to come into force on different dates.

Definitions

    (a) In this Act:

    "Appointed person" means a person who is required to act in accordance with an instruction given by another person, directly or through another party or parties representing them, in exercising a right vested in a share, debenture, or other property. A person is also an appointed person if, in exercising such a right, they can only act in accordance with an instruction given by another person.

    "Registrar" means the Registrar of Companies mentioned in the Companies Act.

    "Companies Act" means Law No. 10/96 (Maldives Companies Act). This includes amendments made to that Act from time to time and regulations made under that Act.

    "Advertisement" means information prepared by an issuer, or with their permission, or in conjunction with the issuer, containing the following information and given, sent, or made available to any person in any way, other than a prospectus issued through registration:
    (1) Information containing or referring to an offer to the public to purchase securities;
    (2) Information that is about securities offered, or to be offered, for purchase by the public, and that is reasonably likely to interest or induce people to purchase, or offer to purchase, the securities of the issuer.

    "Authority" means the Capital Market Development Authority mentioned in Article 3 of this Act.

    "Investment adviser" means the following parties:
    (1) A person or persons who give advice to various parties regarding securities.
    (2) A person or persons who publish studies and reports on securities as a general business.
    (3) A person who manages a portfolio of securities for investment under an agreement with any party, under the discretion granted.

    "Official List" means the list containing all securities included for quotation on the stock exchange.

    "Officer" includes directors, secretaries, managers, executives, and, in the case of a partnership, partners.

    "Underwriting" means to buy or agree to buy, for the purpose of dealing in or otherwise distributing to the public immediately or without delay through another party, every security that is issued.

    "Issuer" means a party that issues any security.

    "Financial institution" means banks, parties conducting banking business, and parties authorized by the Authority who are generally active or intend to be generally active in financial business, or whose main objectives include being generally active in such business.

    "Financial correspondent" means a person or persons who submit for publication advice, studies, or reports on securities.

    "This Act" or "Act" includes regulations made under this Act.

    "Book" includes a register, document, record of information, accounts, and accounting documents, whether written, printed, electronically produced, or otherwise made, compiled, recorded, or stored on microfilm.

    "Listed company" means a company whose securities are listed for trading in accordance with the listing rules of the stock exchange company under Article 29 of this Act.

    "Listing rules" means rules concerning the following matters:
    (1) Rules made regarding the inclusion of companies in the official list of the stock exchange for quotation in the stock market, delisting, and other purposes.
    (2) Rules made in the following manner regarding the activities conducted by listed companies:
    (a) Rules made by a company or included in its constitutional documents; or
    (b) Rules made by another party and adopted by the company.

    "Related company" has the meaning given in the Companies Act.

    "Securities dealer" means any person who, whether or not they conduct another business, is licensed under Article 30 of this Act to conduct the business of dealing in securities.

    "Business of dealing in securities" means to enter into, or offer to enter into, or induce or attempt to induce another person to enter into, an agreement with another party, whether in their own name or as a representative of another party, of the following kind:
    (1) An agreement to acquire, dispose of, or agree to purchase securities, or an agreement made to underwrite securities under this Act;
    (2) An agreement made for the purpose or with the objective of obtaining a benefit for any person from the profit derived from securities, or from a change in the price of securities.

    "Representative of a securities dealer" means:
    (1) A person who, under a securities dealer, whether as a direct employee or under an agreement between them and that party, performs the work of the securities dealer for a salary, wage, commission, or in any other such manner, other than the work done by accountants, clerks, and cashiers. And
    (2) Directors and officers of such a party who perform any such work for a securities dealer are included.

    "Issuer of securities" means a party that issues any security.

    "Securities" means:
    (1) Debentures, bills, or bonds issued or proposed to be issued by the Government; and
    (2) Debentures, stock, shares, bonds, notes, and a right, warrant, or option in respect of any of these, issued or proposed to be issued by a company or other body;
    (3) Any instrument determined by the Authority to be a security for the purpose of this Act.

    "Stock Exchange" means a market, exchange, or other place where securities are offered for sale, purchase, or exchange, and which provides services for clearing, settling, and transferring securities, by a company licensed by the Authority under Article 21 of this Act.

    "Stock exchange company" means a company licensed to operate a stock exchange under this Act.

    "Debenture" has the meaning given to debenture in the Companies Act.

    "Stock market" means a market or arrangement where securities are offered for sale, purchase, and exchange.

    "Parties who have acquired more than 5% of shares" means parties who, by themselves, or through an appointed person, or an associated party, have an interest in a share or shares that confer the power to cast at least 5% of the total votes at a general meeting of the company.

    "Minister" means the Minister of Finance and Treasury or, if their responsibilities are assigned to another party by the President of the Republic, that assigned party.

    "Financial year" means the period from 1st January to 31st December of a calendar year. In calculating this period, the start and end dates of the period are included.

    "Central Depository" means a system designated for the central deposit, maintenance, and settlement of shares.

    "Foreign regulatory authority" means any person or entity outside the Republic of Maldives that performs responsibilities similar to those of the Authority and that the Authority deems it necessary or desirable to provide assistance to for the public interest, and that performs the responsibility of regulating the securities market under a financial securities law.

    "Fund management" means, on a commercial basis, under an agreement with another party, investing that party's money according to determined principles and managing, developing, and maintaining the rights related to that investment.

    "Fund manager" means a party that provides fund management.

    "Prospectus" means a document published for the public sale of any type of security.

Associated Person

    (a) The term "Associated person" in this Act is defined as follows:
    (1) If the other party is a company:
    (a) A director or secretary of that company;
    (b) A related company; or
    (c) A director or secretary of such a related company.
    (2) A person or party who has entered into, or is about to enter into, a direct or indirect, formal or informal, agreement or other such covenant with another person for the purpose of acting in a manner as described below, regarding the extent of voting power that can be exercised in relation to the voting shares of a company, or holding such power.
    (a) To exercise, or to hold the power to exercise, or to exert a reasonable degree of influence over, the voting power attached to a share of the company by one of the two parties in a particular way, directly or indirectly.
    (b) To influence or control the proceedings for the composition of the Board of Directors of the company.
    (c) One party is required to buy the shares of the other party in the company, or is compelled to dispose of the shares of the company to the other party at the direction of one party.
    (3) A party who acts in the same way as the other party in the said associated matter, or intends to act.
    (4) Without prejudice to subsection (2) of this Article, if the said associated matter is something other than exercising or holding the power to exercise the voting power attached to the voting shares of a company, both parties are directors of the same company.
    (5) Due to any law, two persons are considered associated persons in relation to the said matter.
    (6) A party who is formally or informally connected, or intends to connect, in any other way in relation to the said matter.
    (7) If the other party has entered into, or intends to enter into, a transaction for the purpose of associating with them in a manner as stated in subsection (a) of this Article, or to do or intend to do anything.

    (b) In a proceeding under this Act, if a person mentioned in subsections (a)(4), (5), (6) of this Article is alleged to be associated with another party at a particular time, the first-mentioned person shall not be considered an associated person in the matter included in the proceeding unless the person making such an allegation can prove that they knew, or it was reasonable for them to know, important information about that matter at that time.

    (c) Due to a business relationship between a person and another party, or in connection with the duties regularly performed in their professional capacity, giving advice to each other, or acting on behalf of each other, shall not be considered an associated person as mentioned in subsections (a)(4), (5), (6), or (7) of this Article.

Having an Interest

    (a) If a person knows, or it is reasonable for them to know, that property held in trust is or includes securities and that they have an interest in those securities, that person shall be deemed to have an interest in those securities.
    (1) If a company has an interest in a security, and that company or its directors, whether formally or informally, act or are required to act in relation to that security as instructed by, or on the advice of, or as requested by, a person, that person shall be deemed to have an interest in that security.
    (2) If a company has an interest in a security and any person is in a position to exert control over that company, that person shall be deemed to have an interest in that security.
    (3) If a company has an interest in a security and any person, or a person associated with them, can use or has the power to use not less than 30% of the votes attached to the shares of that company, that person shall be deemed to have an interest in that security.

    (b) A person shall be deemed to have an interest in a security in each of the following circumstances:
    (1) There is an agreement to purchase a security.
    (2) They have a right, other than an interest held under a trust, to have a security transferred to them or at their direction, whether the right is exercisable now or in the future, or on the fulfillment or non-fulfillment of a particular condition.
    (3) They have a right, under an option, to acquire a security or an interest in a security, whether the right is exercisable now or in the future, or on the fulfillment or non-fulfillment of a particular condition.
    (4) They can or have the power to exercise a right attached to a security registered to them, otherwise than as an appointed person.
    (5) If a person jointly holds a security with another person, they shall be deemed to have an interest in that security.
    (6) In determining whether a person has an interest in a security, the fact that the interest is not related to a specific security does not mean that the person has no interest.
    (7) A person shall not be deemed to have an interest in a security in the following circumstances:
    (a) They hold the security solely as a bare trustee.
    (b) Their ordinary business is the lending of money, and their interest in the security is for the purpose of securing a transaction entered into in the ordinary course of that business.
    (c) The interest is an interest they have in a security which they hold by reason of their employment.
    (d) The interest is in a security by reason of being a person or one of a class of persons who may be designated as having an interest in the security.
    (8) A person shall not be deemed not to have an interest in a security merely because of the following reasons:
    (a) The interest is remote.
    (b) The manner in which the interest arose.
    (c) The right conferred by the interest is a right that can be restrained or its scope reduced.
