Maldives Tourism Act

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This Act is the law governing the designation of areas and islands for tourism development in the Maldives; the leasing of islands for the development of tourist resorts; the leasing of land for the development of resort hotels, hotels, and tourist guesthouses; the development of integrated tourism development projects and government tourism real estate development projects; the leasing of land for the development of private islands; the operation of such places; yacht marinas, yachts, tourist vessels, diving services, travel agency services, and other principles related to various tourism businesses.

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Maldives Tourism Act."

Leasing of Land for Tourist Resorts and Hotels, Operation of Such Places, and Operation of Guesthouses and Yacht Marinas

2.
The leasing of islands, land, and lagoons in the Maldives for the development of tourist resorts, resort hotels, and hotels, and the operation of tourist resorts, resort hotels, hotels, and tourist guesthouses, as well as yacht marinas, and the operation of yachts and tourist vessels, shall be conducted in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

Leasing of Land for Integrated Tourism or Tourism Real Estate Development Projects and Private Island Development and Operation of Such Places

3-1.
The leasing of islands, land, and lagoons in the Maldives for the development of integrated tourism projects, government tourism real estate development projects, and private islands, and the development and operation of places under such projects, shall be conducted in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

Provision of Diving Services and Travel Agency Services

3.
The operation of diving centers, the provision of services by such centers, and the provision of travel agency services in the Maldives shall be conducted in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

Designation of Tourism Zones, Islands for Tourist Resort Development, and Locations for Resort Hotels, Hotels, and Tourist Guesthouses

4.
(a) The President of the Republic shall designate the islands, land, and lagoons to be leased for the development of tourist resorts, integrated tourism, government tourism real estate development projects, and private islands, as well as the locations for resort hotels, hotels, and tourist guesthouses, and other places and areas to be developed for tourism purposes in the Maldives.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, the following places and areas shall be designated as places and areas to be developed for tourism purposes by the following authorities:

(1) In inhabited islands or cities, the land to be developed for tourism purposes, in accordance with the land use plan of that island or city, shall be designated by the respective island or city council.

(2) Uninhabited islands and lagoons within the jurisdiction of the island or city councils of inhabited islands or cities shall be designated as areas to be developed for tourism purposes by the President of the Republic.

(c) Under subsection (b)(1) of this section, only tourist guesthouses or tourist hotels may be developed in the areas designated for tourism purposes.

Regarding Tourist Resorts

Leasing of Islands, Land, and Lagoons for Tourism-related Purposes

5.
(a) Islands, land, or lagoons for tourism-related purposes shall be leased in one of the following three ways:

(1) By leasing to the person or party that submits the best eligible proposal through a public announcement by the Ministry of Tourism, in accordance with a prescribed procedure; or

(2) Notwithstanding subsection (a)(1) of this section, upon submission to the Ministry of Tourism of an application for an island, land, or lagoon with details of the proposed project, by leasing that island, land, or lagoon in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

(3) Under an economic or social policy for the benefit of the public interest, or under any other important policy determined by the government, by leasing an island, land, or lagoon for the development of a tourist resort or an integrated tourist resort as a cross-subsidy, in accordance with the provisions of subsection (m) of this section, to a party awarded a major project determined by the government in accordance with pre-announced principles, or to a party financing such a project.

(b) An island, land, or lagoon shall be leased under subsection (a)(2) of this section upon fulfillment of the following conditions:

(1) The island, land, or lagoon must be environmentally suitable for the proposed project; and

(2) The acquisition fee, as determined and published by the Ministry of Tourism for the island, land, or lagoon, must have been paid in full at once; and

(3) The party applying for the island, land, or lagoon must be financially and technically capable of carrying out the proposed project.

(c) Subsection (b) of this section does not preclude the Ministry of Tourism from setting additional conditions in a regulation made under this Act, in addition to the conditions specified in subsection (b).

(d) In leasing an island, land, or lagoon under subsection (a)(2) of this section, the Ministry of Tourism shall act as follows:

(1) A standard for the technical and financial evaluation of proposals submitted for any such island, land, or lagoon, in a fair and transparent manner, shall be established in a regulation made under this Act, and every proposal submitted shall be evaluated in accordance with that standard;

(2) After leasing an island, land, or lagoon, detailed information regarding the matter shall be shared in writing with the Anti-Corruption Commission and the Auditor General's Office.

(e) The regulation on the procedure for leasing islands, lagoons, or land under subsection (a)(2) of this section shall be formulated by the Ministry of Tourism and published in the Government Gazette within 3 (three) months from the date of commencement of the 8th Amendment to the Maldives Tourism Act (Act No. 2/99).

(f) The Ministry of Tourism, in consultation with the President of the Republic, shall prepare and publish a list containing the number of islands, lands, and lagoons to be leased for tourism-related purposes in each financial year and information about them. The Ministry of Tourism has the authority to make additions or deletions to this list with the permission of the President of the Republic if it deems necessary.

(g) Prior to the commencement of the 10th Amendment to the Maldives Tourism Act (Act No. 2/99), the government has the authority to sell its shares in joint venture companies formed with government participation for the development of islands, lands, and lagoons leased for investment, as tourist resorts, to the other shareholder or shareholders of the joint venture company or to a third party in accordance with this section.

(1) When selling shares, the transaction for the sale of such shares shall be conducted in accordance with a regulation determined and published by the Ministry of Finance.

(2) In the sale of government shares in joint venture companies formed with government participation as specified in this subsection, the minimum price of the government's shares shall be determined by a valuation conducted by an independent valuer appointed under the Public Finance Regulation. In conducting such valuation, the acquisition fee and land rent determined by the Ministry of Tourism for islands leased for the development of tourist resorts shall be taken into account.

(h) Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, land for tourism purposes shall be leased as follows:

(1) This Act shall apply to the leasing of islands, land, or lagoons for tourism-related purposes.

(2) Notwithstanding the provision in subsection (a)(1) of this section that islands, land, or lagoons for tourism purposes shall be leased by the Ministry of Tourism, in the case specified in subsection (b) of section 4 of this Act, lands designated in the land use plan of an inhabited island for tourism purposes within the jurisdiction of island councils and city councils shall be leased by the respective council through public announcement, in accordance with the principles determined by the government in relation to the matter, to the party that submits the best eligible proposal.

(i) For the purpose of subsection (h)(2) of this section, councils shall carry out the process of leasing land in accordance with the regulation made by the Ministry of Tourism under this Act.

(j)
(1) Under an economic or social policy for the benefit of the public interest, or under any other important policy determined by the government, an island, land, or lagoon shall be leased by the government as a cross-subsidy under subsection (a)(3) of this section to a party awarded a major project determined by the government in accordance with pre-announced principles, or to a party financing such a project, in accordance with the provisions of subsections (2) to (10) of this subsection.

(2) For the purpose of this section, "cross-subsidy" refers to an island, land, or lagoon leased by the state as a benefit, concession, or compensation to a party that invests its own funds in a pre-determined amount to carry out a project under an economic or social policy for the benefit of the public interest, or under any other important policy determined by the government, in accordance with pre-announced principles, or to a party that finances such a project in a pre-determined amount.

(3) The projects referred to in subsection (1) of this subsection and the minimum investment amounts to be made by the party awarded the project or the party agreeing to finance the project shall be determined by a resolution of the President of the Republic and published in the Government Gazette each year.

(4) An island, land, or lagoon leased as a cross-subsidy under this section shall be leased for a maximum period of 50 (fifty) years.

(5) Notwithstanding subsection (4) of this subsection, if the project assigned to the party to whom the island is transferred under subsection (1) of this subsection has been completed, or if the party has paid the total amount of money required for the project to the state, the lease period may be extended for an additional 49 (forty-nine) years upon payment of the fee specified in subsection (k) of section 9 of this Act.

(6) When the government decides to lease an island, land, or lagoon as a cross-subsidy to a specific party under this section, even if the decision to lease that island, land, or lagoon is made by another government agency, upon such decision by the relevant authority to lease an island, land, or lagoon to a specific party as a cross-subsidy under this Act, that island, land, or lagoon shall be transferred to the Ministry of Tourism for the purposes of this Act. And the procedures regarding that island, land, or lagoon shall be in accordance with the principles set out in this Act.

(7) An island, land, or lagoon leased as a cross-subsidy under this section shall be leased under an agreement between the party to whom the island, land, or lagoon is leased and the Government of the Maldives. In addition to the matters specified in section 6 of this Act, the agreement shall state the circumstances under which the island, land, or lagoon may be repossessed if the party fails to complete the work assigned to it under a project specified in subsection (1) of this subsection or fails to make the specified expenditure for that project.

(8) Since an island, land, or lagoon leased as a cross-subsidy under this section is leased as a benefit, concession, or compensation to a party for investing its own funds in a project specified in subsection (1) of this subsection, the rent and acquisition cost payable for that island, land, or lagoon may be offset against the investment made by that party.

(9) The procedures for leasing islands as cross-subsidies under this section shall be specified in the regulation made under this Act.

(10) The Ministry of Tourism shall establish a standard for calculating the minimum acquisition cost of such places for the purpose of leasing islands, land, or lagoons as cross-subsidies under this section.

Operation of Two Islands in the Same Lagoon as Separate Islands

5-1.
(a) If there is more than one natural or reclaimed island within an area leased for the development of a tourist resort under this Act, located in the same lagoon, those islands may be designated as separate islands and leased to separate parties.

(b) At the time of the commencement of the 10th Amendment to the Maldives Tourism Act (Act No. 2/99), if any island, lagoon, or land leased or operating as a tourist resort is comprised of more than one island in the same lagoon, in accordance with a regulation made under this Act, those islands may be designated as separate islands, and the lessee may sell or lease the rights acquired over any of those islands to a third party.

(c) The procedures for designating two islands in the same lagoon as separate islands as specified in subsections (a) and (b) of this section, the method of determining the boundaries of such islands, the fees to be charged for such islands, and other procedures to be followed in relation to such islands shall be specified in a regulation made under this Act.

(d) At the time of the commencement of the 10th Amendment to the Maldives Tourism Act (Act No. 2/99), if more than one lagoon has been leased under a single lease agreement, separate lease agreements may also be drawn up for each of those separate lagoons under this section.

Making of Agreement and Matters to be Included in the Agreement

6.
A tourist resort on an island or land leased under this Act shall be developed under an agreement made between the government and the party leasing the island or land. This agreement shall state the following:

(a) The island or land being leased.

(b) The duration of the lease.

(c) If a period for construction is given within the lease period, that period and the date of commencement of the resort's operation.

(d) The circumstances under which the agreement can be terminated before the expiry of the lease period, and the procedures to be followed in such circumstances.

(e) The amount of rent and the manner of payment.

(f) The procedure to be followed if it is desired to lease the resort to a third party, or to hand over the operation of the resort to another party.

(g) The procedure to be followed if it is desired to sell the investment made on an island, lagoon, or land leased by the government for tourism development, or if the rights acquired by the lessee under the agreement between the government and the lessee of the island, lagoon, or land are to be sold or transferred to another party.

(h) The procedure to be followed if the lessee violates the agreement.

Rent

7.
(a) The rent for islands and lands leased under this Act for the development of tourist resorts, tourist hotels, yacht marinas, and tourist guesthouses and for the development of integrated tourism shall be paid to the government in accordance with this section.

(1) The rent for uninhabited islands and the land of uninhabited islands leased for the development of tourist resorts, tourist hotels, yacht marinas, and integrated tourism projects shall be paid in accordance with Schedule 1 of this Act.

(2) The rent for lands leased for tourism purposes from inhabited islands before the commencement of the 11th Amendment to the Maldives Tourism Act (Act No. 2/99) shall be paid in accordance with Schedule 2 of this Act.

(3) The rent for lands leased for tourism purposes from inhabited islands after the commencement of the 11th Amendment to the Maldives Tourism Act (Act No. 2/99) shall be determined through a bidding process for the lease of that land, at an amount not less than the rent calculated for that land under the formula in Schedule 2 of this Act.

(b) For islands and lands leased for the development of tourist resorts, tourist hotels, yacht marinas, and tourist guesthouses, and for integrated tourism development before the commencement of the 11th Amendment to the Maldives Tourism Act (Act No. 2/99), rent shall also be paid in the manner specified in subsection (a) of this section.

(c) The payment of rent in the manner specified in this section shall commence from 1 January 2021.

Handing Over of Resort to the Government upon Termination or Expiry of Agreement

8.
(a) An island or land for the development of a tourist resort shall be leased on the condition that upon the expiry of the agreement for the lease of that island or land, or upon the termination of the agreement before its expiry, the resort, at the level at which it was being operated, shall be handed over to the government for the government to act in accordance with subsection (b) of this section.

(b) When an island or land leased for the development of a tourist resort is returned to the government upon the expiry of the lease period or upon the termination of the agreement for reasons other than at the request of the lessee or due to a breach of the agreement by the lessee, the government shall, within 2 years from the date the island or land is handed over to the government, pay the lessee the value of the buildings and property on that island or land after deducting depreciation, in accordance with a procedure determined by the Auditor General of the Maldives, as of the date the island or land is handed over to the government.

(c) If an island or land handed over to the government upon the expiry of the lease period, or upon the termination of the agreement before its expiry, as mentioned in subsection (b) of this section, is leased to the same party who previously held the lease, as per section 11 of this Act, then the payment for the buildings and property on that island or land as mentioned in subsection (b) of this section shall not be made.

Lease Period

9.
(a) Except in the cases mentioned in Section 10 of this Act and subsection (k) of this section, islands, lands, and lagoons leased for the development of a tourist resort or an integrated tourist resort under this Act shall be leased for a maximum period of 50 (fifty) calendar years from the date the island, land, or lagoon is handed over to the lessee.

(b) If the lessee of an island, land, or lagoon leased for the development of a tourist resort requests an extension of the lease period, the lease period of that island, land, or lagoon may be extended in accordance with subsection (c) of this section, provided that the total period from the date the island, land, or lagoon was leased to that party does not exceed 50 (fifty) years.

(c) If the lessee of an island, land, or lagoon submits a request to the Ministry of Tourism to extend the lease period of the island, land, or lagoon under subsection (b) of this section, the lease period of that island, land, or lagoon shall be extended after charging a fee as follows:

(1) If the party agrees to pay and settle the amount within 6 (six) months from the date of commencement of the 15th Amendment to the Maldives Tourism Act (Act No. 2/99), a lump sum of 100,000 (one hundred thousand) US dollars shall be paid for each year of extension.

(2) If the party agrees to pay and settle the amount after 6 (six) months from the date of commencement of the 15th Amendment to the Maldives Tourism Act (Act No. 2/99), a lump sum of 200,000 (two hundred thousand) US dollars shall be paid for each year of extension.

(d) Upon submission of a request to the Ministry of Tourism for an extension of the period under subsection (b) of this section, if all the requirements related to the request are fulfilled, the Ministry shall grant the extension to the said parties within 1 (one) month from the date of receipt of the request.

(e) Among the islands, lands, or lagoons leased for the development of tourist resorts or integrated tourist resorts, for those islands, lands, or lagoons that have been leased for 50 (fifty) years under this section, if the lessee is a party that meets the following conditions, the lease period of that island, land, or lagoon may be extended for the following periods, up to a maximum of 49 (forty-nine) years.

(1) If the lessee of the island, land, or lagoon has any outstanding rent, fine, tax, or fee payable to the government, that amount must be paid and settled; this does not include rent and fines deferred by the Ministry of Tourism under an agreement. And,

(2) To extend the lease period of the island, land, or lagoon by 20 (twenty) years at once, by submitting a request for extension within 6 (six) months from the date of commencement of the 15th Amendment to the Maldives Tourism Act (Act No. 2/99), and within that period, having paid a lump sum of 2,500,000 (two million five hundred thousand) US dollars as an extension fee; or

(3) To extend the lease period of the island, land, or lagoon by 25 (twenty-five) years at once, by submitting a request for extension within 6 (six) months from the date of commencement of the 15th Amendment to the Maldives Tourism Act (Act No. 2/99), and within that period, having paid a lump sum of 3,000,000 (three million) US dollars as an extension fee; or

(4) To extend the lease period of the island, land, or lagoon by 49 (forty-nine) years at once, by submitting a request for extension within 6 (six) months from the date of commencement of the 15th Amendment to the Maldives Tourism Act (Act No. 2/99), and within that period, having paid a lump sum of 5,000,000 (five million) US dollars as an extension fee; or

(5) To extend the lease period of the island, land, or lagoon by 49 (forty-nine) years at once, by submitting a request for extension within 6 (six) months from the date of commencement of the 15th Amendment to the Maldives Tourism Act (Act No. 2/99), and having paid the extension fee as follows; or

(i) By paying a lump sum of 1,500,000 (one million five hundred thousand) US dollars within 6 (six) months from the date of commencement of the 15th Amendment to the Maldives Tourism Act (Act No. 2/99), and within 12 (twelve) months from the date of submitting the extension request, having paid 4,000,000 (four million) US dollars in installments as prescribed in the regulation made under this Act; or

(ii) By paying a lump sum of 1,500,000 (one million five hundred thousand) US dollars within 6 (six) months from the date of commencement of the 15th Amendment to the Maldives Tourism Act (Act No. 2/99), and within 24 (twenty-four) months from the date of submitting the extension request, having paid 4,500,000 (four million five hundred thousand) US dollars in installments as prescribed in the regulation made under this Act.

(6) After the expiry of 6 (six) months from the date of commencement of the 15th Amendment to the Maldives Tourism Act (Act No. 2/99), to extend the lease period of the island, land, or lagoon by 49 (forty-nine) years at once, having paid a lump sum of 10,000,000 (ten million) US dollars as an extension fee.

(f) The extension of the period under subsection (e)(5) of this section shall be granted upon payment and settlement of the extension fee within the periods specified in that subsection.

(g) If the fee payable under subsection (e)(5) of this section is not paid and settled within the periods specified in that subsection, the application for the extension of the period shall be void. In such a case, the money paid by the applicant as an extension fee shall not be refunded to them.

(h) Notwithstanding subsection (g) of this section, the money paid as an extension fee may be offset against the amount payable by the party as rent for the island, land, or lagoon.

Circumstances under which lease may be granted for a period longer than 50 years

10.
If the party to whom islands or lands are currently leased for the development of tourist resorts, or a party applying for an island or land for the development of a tourist resort, is a public company that meets the following conditions, that island or land shall be leased for a period of 99 (ninety-nine) years.

(a) The company must be registered in the Maldives.

(b) The construction and operation of tourist resorts must be included among the objectives of the company in its memorandum of association.

(c) At least 55% (fifty-five percent) of the company's shares must have been sold to the public.

Procedure upon Termination or Expiry of Agreement

11.
(a) Upon the expiry of the agreement for the lease of an island or land for the development of a tourist resort, or upon the expiry of the extended period under Section 10 of this Act, or upon the departure of the lessee due to the termination of the agreement before the expiry of the lease period, that island or land shall be re-leased in accordance with Section 5 of this Act, and for a period specified in this Act.

(b) When parties wishing to lease an island or land advertised for re-leasing in accordance with subsection (a) of this section submit their proposals, they must propose to pay the government, within 1 year from the date the island or land is handed over to them, the value of the buildings and property on that island or land after deducting depreciation, in accordance with a procedure determined by the Auditor General of the Maldives. However, if the party currently leasing the island or land applies to re-lease it, they are not required to propose payment for the property on the island.

Transfer of Lessee's Rights to Another Party

12.
The investment made on an island, lagoon, or land leased by the government for tourism development may be sold, or the rights acquired by the lessee under the agreement made between the government and the lessee of the island, lagoon, or land may be sold or transferred to another party, subject to the conditions in the regulation made under this Act and the conditions stated in the agreement made with the lessee.

Conversion of a Public Company Leasing an Island into a Private Company

13.
If a public company that has leased an island or land for a period of 99 (ninety-nine) years under Section 10 of this Act is converted into a private company, or if a condition specified in Section 10 of this Act is no longer met by the company, the period extended by virtue of being a public company shall be deducted from the period for which the island or land was leased to that party.

Appropriation for the Defense of the Maldives

14.
(a) In the event that an island or land leased for the development of a resort under this Act is required for the defense of the Maldives, it may be appropriated without any notice to the lessee. An island or land may be appropriated before the expiry of the lease period in any other manner only as specified in the agreement made for the lease of that island or land.

(b) If an island or land leased for the development of a resort is appropriated for the defense of the Maldives as stated in subsection (a) of this section, fair compensation shall be paid for the investment made on that island or land.

Undertaking Activities that Permanently Alter Islands, Lands, or Lagoons

15.
(a) Any work on an island, land, or lagoon leased for tourism purposes that would cause a permanent change to its environment shall be carried out only after obtaining permission from the government ministry that formulates and implements environmental policies, and after submitting that document to the Ministry of Tourism and obtaining the Ministry's permission. And, if the land is within the jurisdiction of an inhabited island, the permission of the council having jurisdiction over that land may be obtained by submitting that document to the said council.

(b) The permission to carry out an activity that would cause a permanent change to the environment of a place, as specified in subsection (a) of this section, shall be issued in accordance with the regulation on conducting environmental impact assessment reports prepared by the government ministry that formulates and implements environmental policies.

Issuance of Operating License for Tourist Resorts and Setting of Resort Standards

16.
(a) Any resort built on an island or land obtained in accordance with Section 5 of this Act shall be operated only after registering with the Ministry of Tourism and obtaining a license issued by the Ministry of Tourism for operating a tourist resort.

(b) A license to operate a tourist resort shall be granted to places that meet the following conditions:

(1) The construction must be in accordance with the standards set by the Ministry of Tourism.

(2) The services that the Ministry of Tourism determines must be available from such a place must be available from that place.

(c) The sole authority to determine the standards, services, and facilities that a resort built on an island, land, or lagoon leased under this Act must have is vested in the Ministry of Tourism.

Development and Operation of Integrated Tourist Resorts

Operation of Integrated Tourist Resorts

16-1.
(a) The development and operation of an integrated tourist resort in any area of the Maldives shall be in accordance with the principles set out in sections 16-2 to 16-5 of this Act.

(b) For the purposes of this section:

(1) "Integrated Tourist Resort" means an area comprising a specific island, a specific part of an island, or a group of specific islands designated for the operation of an integrated tourist resort, which is developed by a party entrusted with the development of that island or area to include more than one type of tourism business, such as separate tourist resorts, resort hotels, hotels, and/or tourist guesthouses and/or yacht marinas and/or other tourism businesses.

(2) "Developer" means the party authorized by the government to develop an integrated tourist resort.

(3) "Tourism Business Operator" means a separate investor who establishes and operates a specific tourism business in an integrated tourist resort under an agreement with the developer of that resort.

(c) The regulation specifying the principles for the development of integrated tourist resorts shall be formulated and published by the Ministry of Tourism within 3 (three) months from the date of commencement of the 10th Amendment to the Maldives Tourism Act (Act No. 2/99).

(d) The regulation referred to in subsection (c) of this section shall include the following:

(1) The criteria and procedures for issuing a license for an integrated tourist resort;

(2) The conditions and procedures for converting a place operating as a tourist resort or a place leased for the development of a tourist resort into an integrated resort;

(3) That specific parts of an island, lagoon, or land leased for the development of an integrated tourist resort may be leased to a third party, and the procedures for leasing to a third party;

(4) That a management agreement must be made in relation to specific parts of an island, lagoon, or land leased for the development of an integrated tourist resort, and the procedures for making such an agreement;

(5) The procedures for maintaining a register of integrated tourist resorts;

(6) The principles for providing basic services in an integrated tourist resort.

Leasing of Islands, Land, and Lagoons for the Development of Integrated Tourist Resorts

16-2.
(a) Islands, lands, and lagoons for the operation of integrated tourist resorts in any area of the Maldives shall be leased in one of the following two ways in an area designated for the operation of integrated tourist resorts under this Act:

(1) To a company wholly owned by the government, in accordance with section 16-5 of this Act; or

(2) To any other party, in accordance with section 5 of this Act.

(b) For the purpose of developing and operating an integrated tourist resort, the party that has entered into an agreement with the government to lease an island or area in a specific island or area designated for the operation of integrated tourist resorts as specified in this Act, for the purpose of developing and operating separate tourist resorts, resort hotels, hotels, or tourist guesthouses or other tourism-related activities through a third party, shall lease separate parts of that island or area to a third party in accordance with the regulation made under this Act.

Granting Permission to Operate Integrated Tourist Resorts

16-3.
(a) An integrated tourist resort may be operated in any area of the Maldives only after obtaining permission from the Ministry of Tourism.

(b) The permission to operate an integrated tourist resort under subsection (a) of this section shall be granted to the developer of that place.

(c) The permission referred to in subsection (b) of this section shall be granted for the development of the integrated tourist resort in accordance with an agreement made between the developer and the Ministry of Tourism. The main matters to be included in that agreement shall be specified in the regulation made under this Act.

(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (b) of this section, separate tourist resorts, resort hotels, hotels, or tourist guesthouses or any other tourism business included in an integrated tourist resort shall be operated only after obtaining the necessary permits under this Act for operating such places.

(e) The license to operate an integrated tourist resort as referred to in subsection (c) of this section shall be granted to places that fulfill the following conditions:

(1) The place must be an island or area designated for the operation of an integrated tourist resort under subsection (a) of section 4 of this Act;

(2) The building must be constructed in accordance with the standards set by the Ministry of Tourism;

(3) Specific services, at a specific standard, as determined by the Ministry of Tourism, must be available from that place;

(4) Other conditions specified in the regulation made by the Ministry of Tourism under this Act.

(f) Unless expressly stated otherwise in this Act, all matters required of tourist resorts by this Act shall also apply to integrated tourist resorts. The obligation to pay the Green Tax as specified in subsection (k) of section 35 of this Act shall also apply to tourism business operators in integrated tourist resorts.

Conversion of Islands Leased for Tourist Resort Development into Islands Operating as Integrated Tourist Resorts

16-4.
(a) At the time of commencement of the 10th Amendment to the Maldives Tourism Act (Act No. 2/99), an island, lagoon, or land leased for the operation of a tourist resort, or an island operating as a tourist resort in accordance with this Act, may be converted into an island, lagoon, or land operating as an integrated tourist resort only after obtaining permission from the Ministry of Tourism in accordance with a regulation made under this Act.

(b) An island leased for the development of a tourist resort or an island operating as a tourist resort in accordance with this Act may be converted into an island operating as an integrated tourist resort only if the conditions specified in the regulation made under this Act are fulfilled.

(c) A place operating as a tourist resort, as specified in subsection (a) of this section, may be converted into a place operating as an integrated tourist resort after payment of a fee of 1,000,000 (one million) US dollars.

(d) A place leased for development as a tourist resort, as specified in subsection (a) of this section, if not yet in operation, may be converted into a place operating as an integrated tourist resort upon the agreement of the lessee of that place to pay a fee of 1,000,000 (one million) US dollars in a manner prescribed by a regulation made under this Act.

Operation of Integrated Tourist Resorts under a Tourism Real Estate Development Project

16-5.
(a) Notwithstanding Section 5 of this Act, while the general principle stated in that section is that islands, land, or lagoons for tourism-related purposes shall be leased in accordance with the manner stated in that section, for the purpose of expanding and promoting tourism in a specific area of the Maldives and increasing and promoting economic activity in that area, an island, land, or lagoon may be leased to a company wholly owned by the government for the development and operation of an integrated tourist resort under a government tourism real estate development project, as follows:

(1) The island, lagoon, or land must be an island, lagoon, or land designated for the development and operation of an integrated tourist resort in accordance with subsection (a) of section 4 of this Act; and

(2) The area where the island, lagoon, or land is located must be an area designated for a government tourism real estate development project; and

(3) The leasing of the island, land, or lagoon to a company wholly owned by the government for the development and operation of an integrated tourist resort must have been determined by a resolution of the President of the Republic; and

(4) All shares comprising the capital of the company to which the island, land, or lagoon is leased for the development and operation of an integrated tourist resort must remain as one hundred percent government shares for the period specified in subsection (b) of this section.

(b) An island, land, or lagoon leased under this section for the development and operation of an integrated tourist resort shall be given to a company wholly owned by the government under an agreement made with the government as specified in Section 6 of this Act.

(c) At least 50% (fifty percent) of the integrated tourist resort developed on the island, lagoon, or land leased under subsection (a) of this section shall be places developed for the long-term lease of rooms or villas on a strata basis, as specified in section 16-6 of this Act.

(d) The agreement made between the Ministry of Tourism and the wholly government-owned company for the development of an integrated tourist resort under this section shall not be transferred, leased, or sub-leased to any other party, except in the circumstances specified in subsection (b) of section 16-2 and subsection (e) of this section.

(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a)(4) of this section, in the following circumstances, the agreement made with the government for the lease of the island, lagoon, or land may be transferred to another party with the permission of the Ministry of Tourism, in accordance with the conditions set by the Ministry:

(1) Transfer of the agreement to another company wholly owned by the government;

(2) After 10 (ten) years from the commencement of the development and operation of the integrated tourist resort, transfer to a company or business in which a party other than the government holds shares.

Long-Term Leasing of Villas or Rooms on a Strata Basis

Long-Term Leasing of Villas or Rooms on a Strata Basis

16-6.
(a) In accordance with the principles set out in sections 16-7 to 16-14 of this Act, villas or rooms of a tourist resort or an integrated tourist resort operated under a permit obtained under this Act may be leased for a long term on a strata basis.

(b) For the purposes of subsection (a) of this section, "villa or room leased for a long term on a strata basis" means a room or a villa containing more than one room, constructed with a separate boundary, separate from other places in the resort, included in the site plan of the tourist resort or integrated tourist resort, and all places included therein, all items installed therein, and all furniture and movable property. And these places shall be arranged in such a way as to provide access to electricity, water, and sewerage services, which are among the general services of the resort, and the right to enter and exit the resort and to enter and leave the room or villa.

(c) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this section, "long-term leasing of a villa or room on a strata basis" means the sale of the right to use that room or villa for a long period, without including the ownership of the room or villa and the land, building, and immovable property connected to it.

Long-Term Leasing of a Villa or Room of a Resort on a Strata Basis

16-7.
(a) A specific villa or room of a tourist resort or an integrated tourist resort operated under this Act may be leased for a long term on a strata basis, as specified in this section.

(b) A specific room or villa of a tourist resort or an integrated tourist resort may be leased for a long term on a strata basis in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

(c) The regulation referred to in subsection (b) of this section shall include the following:

(1) The standards that villas proposed for leasing on a strata basis must meet;

(2) The method of maintaining a register of villas leased on a strata basis;

(3) The matters to be included in the agreement made between the seller and the buyer for the purpose of leasing a villa on a strata basis;

(4) The principles for providing basic services in a villa leased on a strata basis.

Registration of Places Leased on a Strata Basis with the Ministry

16-8.
(a) Before leasing a specific room or villa of a tourist resort or an integrated tourist resort for a long term on a strata basis, an application must be submitted to the Ministry of Tourism, and the place intended for leasing must be registered.

(b) The standards and conditions that places proposed for registration for long-term leasing on a strata basis under subsection (a) of this section must meet shall be determined by the Ministry of Tourism in a regulation made under this Act.

(c) A specific room or villa of a tourist resort or an integrated tourist resort, or a part thereof, may be registered with the Ministry of Tourism for long-term leasing on a strata basis under subsection (a) of this section after payment of a fee of 5,000 (five thousand) Rufiyaa.

Agreement for Leasing on a Strata Basis

16-9.
(a) When leasing a specific room or villa of a tourist resort or an integrated tourist resort for a long term on a strata basis, an agreement that meets the conditions specified in this Act and the regulations made hereunder shall be signed between the seller and the buyer, and that agreement shall be registered with the Ministry of Tourism.

(b) For the purpose of this section, "seller" means the party that has leased an island in accordance with the law for the purpose of developing a tourist resort or an integrated tourist resort, or if the lessee has subleased the lease agreement to another party in accordance with the law, that party (the sub-lessee), or the party to whom the government has leased an island for the development of an integrated tourist resort.

(c) A room or villa registered under section 16-8 of this Act for long-term leasing on a strata basis may be leased to parties that meet the following conditions:

(1) Be an individual who has reached the age of 18 (eighteen) years; or

(2) Be a company or partnership registered in the Maldives.

Conditions of the Lease Transaction

16-10.
(a) The period for which an island is leased under a transaction for the long-term lease of a specific room or villa of a resort on a strata basis under this Act shall not exceed the period for which the government has leased the island or land.

(b) In a transaction for the long-term lease of a specific room or villa of a resort on a strata basis under this Act, the buyer of the villa does not have the right to lease that place to a third party.

(c) An agreement for the long-term lease of a specific room or villa of a resort on a strata basis under this Act shall not have any conflict with the agreement made by the government with the party to whom the island or land is leased. And if the agreement for the lease of a room or villa of a resort includes any clause that contradicts the agreement made by the government for the lease of the island or land, that clause shall be deemed void.

(d) Under an agreement for the lease of a specific room or villa of a resort, the buyer of the villa has the right to sell all the rights vested in them to another party, in a manner that does not conflict with this Act, the regulations made hereunder, and the lease agreement.

(e) Under an agreement for the lease of a specific room or villa of a resort, all rights and interests vested in the buyer of the villa are the rights and interests that grant them legal ownership of that right and interest for the duration of the lease agreement. And that party has the right to mortgage that right and interest in a manner that does not conflict with this Act, the regulations made hereunder, and the agreement. If the lessee mortgages the rights vested in them in this manner, it must be registered with the Ministry of Tourism as specified in the regulation made under this Act.

Matters to be Included in the Lease Agreement

16-11.
An agreement for the long-term lease of a specific room or villa of a resort to another party under this section shall include the following:

(a) The period for which the room or villa is leased;

(b) The total number of days in each calendar year included in the contract period for which the right to use the room or villa is granted; and the manner in which those days are distributed within that calendar year, or if specific days are pre-determined in each calendar year for the use of that room or villa, those days;

(c) The price for which the room or villa is leased, and the method of payment of the price;

(d) The island where the room or villa to which the agreement relates is located, the size of that room or villa, and the services available there;

(e) The procedure to be followed if the rights vested in the seller under the agreement made by the government for the lease of the island or land are sold or leased to another party, or if the management of the resort is handed over to another party;

(f) The principles to be followed, matters to be done, and matters not to be done in the use of the room or villa, between the seller and the buyer;

(g) Clauses stating the principles to be followed if the rights granted to the lessee in the use of the room or villa are relinquished, or if those rights are sold to another party, or if those rights are transferred to another party, or if those rights are exchanged with another party;

(h) Clauses regarding the procedure to be followed if a contract is terminated, the procedure regarding the minimum notice period to be given if notice of termination is required, and the procedure to be followed in paying the money due up to the termination of that contract;

(i) The procedure to be followed in the event of redevelopment of the resort.

Management Agreement

16-12.
In the case of a long-term lease of a specific room or villa of a resort on a strata basis, in addition to the agreement specified in section 16-11 of this Act, there shall be a management agreement signed between the lessor and the seller. The matters to be included in that agreement shall be specified in a regulation made under this Act.

Registration of Interest

16-13.
Upon completion of a transaction for the long-term lease of a specific room or villa of a tourist resort or an integrated tourist resort on a strata basis in accordance with this Act, an application shall be made to register the interest granted to the buyer of the villa under that transaction in their name at the Ministry of Tourism. If the requirements for such an application are fulfilled, the Ministry shall create such a registration in the name of that party.

Circumstances in which Tax is Payable

16-14.
In relation to a transaction for the long-term lease of a specific room or villa of a tourist resort or an integrated tourist resort on a strata basis, the following taxes shall be levied:

(a) GST levied under the Goods and Services Tax Act on the sale transaction;

(b) In the case where a tourist stays at that place, the tax levied on that tourist under the following laws:

(1) GST levied under the Goods and Services Tax Act;

(2) Green Tax levied under the Tourism Act;

(3) Any other tax levied on a tourist under any other law passed by the People's Majlis.

Register of Places Leased on a Strata Basis

16-15.
The Ministry of Tourism shall establish and maintain a register of places registered for long-term leasing on a strata basis under section 16-13 of this Act, the parties who have leased them, and the interests registered in relation to them.

Development and Leasing of Private Islands

Development, Leasing, and Operation of Private Islands

16-16.
(a) The leasing, development, and operation of private islands in any area of the Maldives shall be in accordance with the principles set out in sections 16-17 to 16-19 of this Act.

(b) For the purposes of this section:

(1) "Private Island" means a tourist island developed by a party entrusted with its development, by reclaiming a specific lagoon designated for the development, leasing, and operation of private islands, for long-term lease to an investor as a private island.

(2) "Developer" means the party authorized to develop the private island.

(3) "Investor" means the party who leases a long-term lease of an island developed as a private island under an agreement with the developer of that private island.

(c) Notwithstanding Section 5 of this Act, a lagoon may be leased to a company wholly owned by the government for the purpose of leasing, developing, and operating a private island, as follows:

(1) The lagoon must be a lagoon designated for the development and operation of a private island in accordance with subsection (a) of section 4 of this Act; and

(2) The lagoon must be a place designated for a government tourism real estate development project; and

(3) The leasing of the lagoon to a company wholly owned by the government for the development and operation of a private island must have been determined by a resolution of the President of the Republic; and

(4) All shares comprising the capital of the company to which the lagoon is leased for the development and operation of a private island must remain as one hundred percent government shares for the duration of the lease.

(d) A lagoon shall be leased to a company wholly owned by the government for the development and operation of a private island under this section for a period of 50 (fifty) years.

(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (d) of this section, upon payment of the fee specified in subsection (k) of section 9 of this Act, the lease period shall be extended for an additional 49 (forty-nine) years.

(f) A lagoon for the development and operation of a private island under this section shall be given to a company wholly owned by the government under an agreement made with the government as specified in Section 6 of this Act.

(g) The agreement made between the Ministry of Tourism and the wholly government-owned company for the development of a private island under this section shall not be transferred, leased, or sub-leased to any other party other than another company wholly owned by the government, except in the circumstances specified in section 16-17 of this Act.

Long-Term Leasing of Private Islands

16-17.
(a) In accordance with the principles specified in section 16-16 of this Act, a private island developed under a permit obtained under this Act may be leased for a long term to an investor for use as follows, in a manner prescribed by a regulation made under this Act:

(1) For the investor's own vacation;

(2) For vacation by other persons authorized by the investor on a non-commercial basis;

(3) For commercial use for tourism purposes as per section 16-20 of this Act.

(b) When leasing a private island for a long term under this section, an agreement that meets the conditions specified in this Act and the regulations made hereunder shall be signed between the developer and the investing lessee, and that agreement shall be registered with the Ministry of Tourism. Upon the completion and registration of that agreement with the Ministry of Tourism, all rights and obligations of the developer in the agreement specified in subsection (f) of section 16-16 of this Act shall be transferred to the investor leasing the private island as follows:

(1) A separate lease agreement shall be drawn up between the investor and the Ministry of Tourism in relation to the private island leased by the investor, as specified in section 6 of this Act;

(2) The separate private island shall be leased to the investor for the period specified in subsections (d) and (e) of section 16-16 of this Act, commencing from the date of signing the agreement specified in subsection (1) of this subsection in relation to the private island;

(3) Upon signing the agreement specified in subsection (1) of this subsection in relation to the private island, the area of that private island shall be deducted from the agreement specified in subsection (f) of section 16-16 of this Act;

(4) The conditions and procedures specified in the regulation formulated by the Ministry of Tourism under this Act shall be fulfilled.

(c) A private island may be leased under this section to parties who meet the following conditions:

(1) Be an individual who has reached the age of 18 (eighteen) years; or

(2) Be a company or partnership registered in the Maldives.

(d) The period for which an island is leased under a transaction for the long-term lease of a private island from a developer to an investor under this Act shall not exceed the period specified in subsections (d) and (e) of section 16-16 of this Act.

(e) In a transaction for the long-term lease of a private island from a developer to an investor under this Act, the investing lessee does not have the right to lease that place to a third party.

(f) Under an agreement for the lease of a private island under this Act, the investing lessee has the right to sell all the rights vested in them to another party in a manner that does not conflict with this Act, the regulations made hereunder, and the lease agreement.

(g) Notwithstanding subsection (e) of this section, this section does not prevent the investor or developer from entering into a management agreement with a third party for the maintenance and operation of the private island.

Registration of Interest

16-18.
Upon the completion of a transaction for the lease of a private island from a developer to an investor in accordance with this Act, an application shall be made to register the interest granted to the investor leasing that private island under that transaction in their name at the Ministry of Tourism. If the requirements for such an application are fulfilled, the Ministry shall create such a registration in the name of that party.

Annual Rent of Private Islands

16-19.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act, the developer, or if the private island has been leased to an investor for a long term under section 16-17 of this Act after development, the investor, shall pay rent to the government for islands leased for a long term for the development of private islands as follows:

(a) For islands under the developer's obligation that have not been leased to an investor for a long term after reclamation and are not used for any purpose, 1 (one) US dollar per square meter per year.

(b) For private islands used as specified in subsections (a)(1) and (a)(2) of section 16-17 of this Act, 1 (one) US dollar per square meter per year.

(c) For private islands used as specified in subsection (a)(3) of section 16-17 of this Act, as per Schedule 1 of this Act.

Commercial Use of Private Islands for Tourism Purposes

16-20.
(a) If a developer or an investor who has leased a private island for a long term wishes to use a private island for tourism purposes on a commercial basis, a license for the commercial operation of that place must be obtained from the Ministry.

(b) A license for the commercial use of a private island for tourism purposes shall be issued to a business registered in the Maldives.

(c) A license for the commercial use of a private island for tourism purposes shall be issued to the developer of the island, or to the investor who has leased that island for a long term, or to a third party with whom a management agreement has been made for the operation or maintenance of that island as per subsection (g) of section 16-17 of this Act.

(d) The duration of the operating license issued for the commercial use of a private island for tourism purposes, the fee to be charged for issuing that license, and the procedures for issuing the license shall be specified in a regulation made under this Act.

Regarding Resort Hotels, Hotels, and Tourist Guesthouses

Registration and Obtaining an Operating License

17.
No resort hotel, hotel, or tourist guesthouse shall be operated in the Maldives without registering the establishment with the Ministry of Tourism and obtaining a license issued by the Ministry for the operation of such establishments.

Establishments to which a License is Issued

18.
A license to operate a tourist hotel or a tourist guesthouse shall be issued to establishments that meet the following conditions:

(a) The building and facilities must be in accordance with the standards set by the Ministry of Tourism.

(b) The services that the Ministry of Tourism determines must be available from such an establishment must be available from that establishment.

(c) The establishment must be located on an island designated for tourism development in accordance with Section 4 of this Act.

Leasing of Land for the Development of Resort Hotels and Hotels

19.
If the government leases land for the development of a resort hotel or a hotel, it shall be leased in accordance with subsection (a) of Section 5 of this Act. Furthermore, the sections of this Act concerning the leasing of land for tourist resorts shall also apply to resort hotels and hotels.

Places where Tourists can Stay

20.
No tourist shall be accommodated for a fee in any place other than a resort hotel, hotel, or tourist guesthouse registered and licensed under this Act, or a tourist resort, integrated tourist resort, or tourist vessel licensed under this Act.

Regarding Tourist Vessels

Obtaining a License to Operate a Tourist Vessel

22.
No tourist vessel shall be operated in the Maldives without obtaining a license issued by the Ministry of Tourism for the operation of such vessels.

Vessels to which a License is Issued

23.
A license to operate a tourist vessel shall be issued to vessels that meet the following conditions:

(a) The vessel and its facilities must be in accordance with the standards set by the Ministry of Tourism.

(b) The services that the Ministry of Tourism determines must be available from such a vessel must be available from that vessel.

(c) The vessel must be duly registered with the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation.

Operation of Foreign Tourist Vessels in the Maldives

24.
(a) Any foreign tourist vessel arriving in the Maldives shall be operated and anchored in any area of the Maldives only after obtaining the necessary permits from the relevant government authorities for the arrival and anchoring of such vessels, and after obtaining the permission of the Ministry of Tourism in accordance with the prescribed regulations.

(b) For the vessels referred to in subsection (a) of this section, the Ministry of Tourism shall issue a license under this section upon payment of a fee as specified in the regulation made by the Ministry of Tourism. That fee is the fee charged for issuing the license for anchoring and operating the vessel in the Maldives. The responsibility for paying this fee lies with the agent in the Maldives in charge of the vessel's affairs.

Construction and Operation of Yacht Marinas

27.
Yacht marinas shall be constructed and operated only after obtaining a license issued by the Ministry of Tourism for the operation of such places, and in accordance with the regulation made by that Ministry regarding the construction and operation of yacht marinas.

Conditions for Granting a License

28.
The license to operate a yacht marina referred to in Section 27 of this Act shall be granted to places that meet the following conditions:

(a) The construction must be in accordance with the standards set by the Ministry of Tourism, and the necessary permits from the relevant government authorities must have been obtained.

(b) The services that the Ministry of Tourism determines must be available from such a place must be available from that place.

Regarding Diving Services

Registration and Obtaining an Operating License

29.
No diving service shall be operated in the Maldives for the purpose of providing services to tourists without registering with the Ministry of Tourism and obtaining a license issued by that Ministry.

Parties to whom a License for Diving Services is Issued

30.
The license to operate a diving service establishment as referred to in Section 29 of this Act shall be issued upon the fulfillment of the conditions specified in the regulation made under this Act, the existence of a center operated in accordance with the standards set in that regulation, and the availability of the services that the Ministry of Tourism determines must be available from such an establishment.

Regarding Travel Agencies

Registration and Licensing of Travel Agencies

32.
No party shall provide travel agency services in the Maldives without obtaining a license issued by the Ministry of Tourism.

Parties to whom a License is Issued

33.
A license to provide travel agency services shall be issued to parties that meet the conditions specified in the regulation made under this Act.

Acting as a Tour Guide

34.
(a) No person shall act as a tour guide in the Maldives without obtaining written permission from the Ministry of Tourism in accordance with the regulation made by that Ministry.

(b) Every person acting as a tour guide shall, while engaged in the work of a tour guide, wear the license issued to them on their clothing in a manner visible to the public.

Tax

Tax

35.
(a) A tax of 8 US dollars per person per day, or the equivalent amount in a foreign currency acceptable to the Maldives Monetary Authority, shall be levied on the Maldivian government for each day a tourist spends in a tourist resort, tourist hotel, tourist guesthouse, or tourist vessel operating in the Maldives. It is the responsibility of the operator of the place where the tourist is staying to collect this tax from the tourists and remit it to the government. The tax for the previous month must be paid and settled by the 15th day of the current month.

(b) Among the tourist vessels licensed under Section 24 of this Act, except for the vessels mentioned in subsection (c) of this section, the tax mentioned in subsection (a) of this section shall be levied on every tourist traveling on every other vessel for each day they spend in the Maldives. This tax must be paid to the government before the vessel departs from the Maldives. The responsibility for paying this tax lies with the agent in the Maldives in charge of the vessel's affairs.

(c) Among the foreign tourist vessels arriving in the Maldives, those whose stay in the territorial waters of the Maldives does not exceed 24 hours are not required to pay the tax mentioned in subsections (a) and (b) of this section.

(d) The collection of the tax specified in subsection (a) of this section shall cease 3 (three) years from the date of commencement of levying tax on the price of services provided and goods sold by tourist service providers.

(e) Notwithstanding the date on which the collection of the tax specified in subsection (a) of this section is to cease as stated in subsection (d) of this section, the collection of the tax specified in subsection (a) of this section is reinstated from the date this Act is ratified and comes into effect.

(f) The collection of the reinstated tax specified in subsection (e) of this section shall cease on 30 November 2014.

(g) From tourists staying in tourist resorts, integrated tourist resorts, resort hotels, hotels, tourist guesthouses, tourist vessels, and other such places operating in the Maldives, a tax shall be levied on the state as Green Tax for each day each person spends in that place or on that vessel, at the following rates during the following periods:

(1) From 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2024, 6 (six) US dollars per person;

(2) From 1 January 2025 onwards, 12 (twelve) US dollars per person.

(h) Notwithstanding subsection (g) of this section, from tourists staying in hotels and tourist guesthouses operating on inhabited islands, which have registered 50 (fifty) rooms or fewer, Green Tax shall be levied for each day each person spends in that place, at the following rates during the following periods:

(1) From 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2024, 3 (three) US dollars per person;

(2) From 1 January 2025 onwards, 6 (six) US dollars per person.

(i) It is the responsibility of the operator of the place where the tourist is staying to collect the tax specified in subsections (g) and (h) of this section from the tourists specified in those subsections and remit it to the state.

(j) Notwithstanding subsections (g) and (h) of this section, from 1 January 2025 onwards, children under the age of 2 (two) years shall be exempt from Green Tax.

Tax Collection Arrangements

36.
(a) The tax levied under Section 35 of this Act shall be collected by the Maldives Inland Revenue Authority in accordance with the Tax Administration Act (Act No. 3/2010).

(b) The procedures for submitting the information required by the Maldives Inland Revenue Authority for the collection of the tax levied under Section 35 of this Act, and other related procedures, shall be determined by the Maldives Inland Revenue Authority in a regulation made under this Act.

(c) If the Green Tax specified in Section 35 of this Act has been collected from a party other than the one specified in this Act, or if an amount in excess of the required amount has been collected as Green Tax from any party, the operator of the place where that tourist was staying shall pay that money to the state until it is refunded to that party.

Penalty for Non-payment of Tax and Revocation of License

37.
(a) If a party liable to pay the tax specified in Section 35 of this Act fails to pay that tax in accordance with the Tax Administration Act (Act No. 3/2010) and the regulations made under this Act, that party shall be fined in accordance with the Tax Administration Act (Act No. 3/2010).

(b) If the tax specified in Section 35 of this Act and the fine specified in subsection (a) of this section are not paid within the due period, the Ministry has the authority to revoke the license issued under this Act for the operation of that establishment.

(c) If a license is revoked under subsection (b) of this section, that license shall be reissued only after the party has paid and settled the outstanding tax and fine payable to the state under this Act.

Guests Exempted from Tourism Tax

38.
Guests to whom the government grants special privileges shall be exempted from the tax mentioned in this Act.

Maintenance of Security in Tourist Resorts, Integrated Tourist Resorts, Hotels, Resort Hotels, Tourist Guesthouses, and Yacht Marinas

39.
(a) A security system based on standards acceptable to the relevant institutions shall be established in tourist resorts, integrated tourist resorts, resort hotels, hotels, yacht marinas, and tourist guesthouses, in accordance with the regulation formulated by the Ministry. The regulation so formulated shall be published in the Government Gazette.

(b) The security system mentioned in subsection (a) of this section shall be inspected and approved by the Ministry once every 2 (two) years with the assistance of the security services of the Maldives.

Other Matters

Foreigners Engaging in Tourism Work

40.
Any foreign party wishing to engage in any tourism work mentioned in this Act in the Maldives shall do so after entering into an agreement as mentioned in the Foreign Investment Act (Act No. 25/79) and registering that investment with the Ministry of Tourism in the manner mentioned in that Act.

Exemption from Import Duty on Goods for Construction

41.
The President of the Republic has the authority to establish principles for exempting from import duty the goods imported for the construction of resorts or hotels on land leased for the development of a tourist resort or tourist hotel under this Act, for the construction of yacht marinas, and for the upgrading of such places, and to grant duty exemption in accordance with those principles.

Providing Information to the Ministry of Tourism

42.
All parties engaged in tourism work shall provide the information required for the preparation of tourism statistics of the Maldives to the Ministry of Tourism, in accordance with the regulation made by the Ministry of Tourism.

License Period and Renewal of License

43.
Licenses for the operation of tourist resorts, resort hotels, hotels, tourist guesthouses, and yacht marinas, and for the operation of tourist vessels, diving services, and travel agency services, and other licenses under this Act shall be issued for the period stated in the regulation made by the Ministry of Tourism. Every license shall be renewed upon the expiry of the period for which it was issued.

Display of License in a Publicly Visible Manner

44.
Every license issued under this Act shall, unless otherwise stated in this Act, be displayed in a publicly visible manner at the place for which it was issued.

Determination of Service Quality

45.
The Ministry of Tourism has the authority to classify tourist resorts, tourist hotels, tourist guesthouses, and tourist vessels into different categories, and to determine the services that must be available from the establishments and vessels of each category and the quality of those services.

Closure for Re-development of Places Developed and Operated for Tourism Purposes

45-1.
(a) An island or land developed and operated for tourism purposes may be closed for the purpose of upgrading its standard or for any other such purpose, for a specific period determined by the Ministry of Tourism, with the permission of the Ministry, in accordance with the regulation made by the Ministry of Tourism under this Act. Such a determination shall be implemented after amending the lease agreement of the island or land in accordance with the regulation made by the Ministry of Tourism under this Act.

(b) If the re-development work is not completed and the place is not opened and services are not commenced within the period specified in the amendment made to the lease agreement of the island or land under subsection (a) of this section, the Ministry has the authority to take action against that party and terminate the lease agreement in accordance with the regulation made by the Ministry of Tourism under this Act. In the event of such termination of the lease agreement of the island or land, the government shall not be liable to pay any compensation to the lessee of the island, land, or lagoon.

(c) If the provision of services of a place leased for tourism purposes is ceased and the place is closed in contravention of the procedure stated in subsection (a) of this section, the Ministry of Tourism has the authority to terminate the lease agreement of that place.

Formulation and Implementation of a Compliance Code for Tourist Service Providers

45-2.
Within 1 (one) year from the date of commencement of the 15th Amendment to the Maldives Tourism Act (Act No. 2/99), a compliance code that establishes the safety and operating standards for various areas of tourist service providers shall be formulated in accordance with the standards set by the Ministry of Tourism under this Act.

Advertising of Tourist Service Providers

45-3.
(a) Tourist service providers and the services they provide shall be advertised only if the establishment or service is a tourist service provider or service as defined in this Act, and after registering such establishments and services with the Ministry of Tourism under this Act and obtaining an operating license.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, the Ministry has the authority to grant permission to advertise places leased by the Ministry of Tourism for tourism purposes that are under development, which meet the standards set in the regulation made under this Act, and other additional places specified in the regulation made under this Act.

(c) In advertising their establishments and the services they provide, tourist service providers shall adhere to the following standards:

(1) Not to advertise as a type of establishment other than the one specified in the registration or operating license issued to the tourist service provider;

(2) If a tourist service provider has been designated by the Ministry of Tourism as an establishment of a certain class or category and has been issued an operating license on that basis, not to advertise it as an establishment of another class or category;

(3) The information provided about the tourist service provider and the services available from it must be complete and true;

(4) The information provided about the natural environment surrounding a tourist service provider or about any other natural area in the Maldives must be complete and true;

(5) The information provided about the area surrounding the tourist service provider and the services available in that area must be complete and true.

(d) For the purpose of subsection (c) of this section, the detailed standards and procedures to be adhered to in advertising tourist service providers and the services they provide shall be specified by the Ministry of Tourism in a regulation made under this Act.

Tourism Trust Fund

45-4.
(a) Upon the commencement of the 15th Amendment to the Maldives Tourism Act (Act No. 2/99), a fund named the "Tourism Trust Fund" is established for the purpose of achieving the objectives specified in section 45-5 of this Act.

(b) Upon the commencement of the 15th Amendment to the Maldives Tourism Act (Act No. 2/99), the "Tourism Industry Trust Fund" established and operated under the Public Finance Act (Act No. 3/2006) before the commencement of that Act is abolished, and the money in that fund is transferred to the fund specified in subsection (a) of this section.

Objectives of the Fund

45-5.
The objectives of the Tourism Trust Fund are set out below:

(a) To facilitate financial assistance to the tourism industry of the Maldives with ease, under a transparent policy, and to manage such assistance received with integrity;

(b) To provide financial assistance to promote tourism and tourism resources, and to enhance the capacity of parties active in the tourism sector;

(c) To invest in the development of tourism resources;

(d) To invest the money deposited in the fund in a manner permitted by law.

Money Deposited in the Fund

45-6.
The capital of the Tourism Trust Fund established under section 45-4 of this Act shall consist of the following financial benefits:

(a) Sponsorship money and other funds received from businesses and other parties in the Maldives and abroad for tourism activities conducted by the Ministry of Tourism;

(b) Money paid to the fund as Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) by parties active in the tourism sector, in accordance with the regulations made under this Act;

(c) Money received from investments made by the fund; and

(d) Other money as specified in the regulation made under this Act.

Administration of the Fund

45-7.
(a) The fund specified in section 45-4 of this Act shall be administered by the Ministry of Tourism in accordance with the trust statement of the fund and the principles determined by the operating committee of the Tourism Trust Fund.

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this section, an operating committee of the Tourism Trust Fund shall be established by the Ministry of Tourism.

(c) The composition of the operating committee of the Tourism Trust Fund specified in subsection (b) of this section and the principles of its operation shall be specified in a regulation made under this Act.

(d) The Tourism Trust Fund shall be administered in accordance with this Act and the relevant laws. The fund shall be administered separately from other government funds.

(e) All administrative matters of the fund shall be managed by the Ministry of Tourism.

Use of Fund Money

45-8.
The money of the Tourism Trust Fund shall be expended for the following purposes, in order to achieve the objectives of the fund, in accordance with this Act and the regulations and principles formulated hereunder:

(a) For activities carried out for the development of the tourism industry;

(b) For investing to promote tourism resources;

(c) For conducting education and training programs to enhance the capacity of parties active in the tourism sector;

(d) For conducting activities that provide public social benefit;

(e) Other matters determined by the operating committee of the Tourism Trust Fund and specified in the regulation made under this Act.

Investment of Fund Money

45-9.
(a) The money in the fund may be invested for the purpose of increasing the amount of expenditure made by the fund to achieve the objectives of the Tourism Trust Fund.

(b) The amount of money in the fund to be invested for the purpose specified in subsection (a) of this section, the sectors for investment, and the related principles shall be determined by the operating committee of the fund.

(c) The operating committee of the Tourism Trust Fund shall formulate the fund's "Statement of Investment Principles," which outlines the policies to be determined regarding the investment of the Tourism Trust Fund's money.

Auditing of the Fund and Reporting on the Fund's Operations

45-10.
(a) At the end of each calendar year, the Ministry of Tourism shall prepare an annual report on the operations of the Tourism Trust Fund for that year and its financial statements, and submit them to the President of the Republic, the People's Majlis, and the Auditor General within 3 (three) months of the end of that year.

(b) The Auditor General shall audit the Tourism Trust Fund within 2 (two) months of the submission of the annual report and financial statements referred to in subsection (a) of this section, and submit the audit report to the People's Majlis.

Authority to Inspect Service Quality

46.
The Ministry of Tourism has the authority to inspect tourist resorts, tourist hotels, tourist guesthouses, tourist vessels, yacht marinas, diving services, and travel agency services, and to verify whether such places provide services in accordance with the standards set by the Ministry of Tourism and this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

Fining and Suspension of License if Service Quality Deteriorates

47.
If the quality of service provided by a tourist resort, tourist hotel, tourist guesthouse, tourist vessel, yacht marina, diving service, or travel agency falls below the standards set by the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Tourism has the authority to fine that establishment an amount not exceeding 1,000,000 Rufiyaa, and, depending on the severity of the matter, to suspend the license issued to that establishment until the matter is rectified.

Penalty

48.
If a specific course of action is not specified in another section of this Act for a party that violates this Act and the regulations made hereunder, that party shall be fined an amount not exceeding 100,000 Rufiyaa.

Fining of Parties who Violate the Regulation

49.
Parties who violate Section 15 of this Act and the regulation referred to in that section shall be fined an amount not exceeding 5,000,000 (five million) US dollars, in a manner prescribed in the regulation made under that section.

Registration and Licensing of Unregistered and Unlicensed Establishments at the Commencement of the Act

50.
Establishments that are required to be registered and licensed under this Act, which are not registered and licensed at the time of the commencement of this Act, must complete their registration and licensing within 1 year from the date of commencement of this Act.

Charging a Fee for Services

51.
A service fee may be charged for the services provided by the Ministry of Tourism in relation to tourism matters, in accordance with a regulation made under this Act. The principles and rates for charging fees for such services shall be determined in a relevant regulation, which shall be made by the Ministry of Tourism and published in the Government Gazette within 3 (three) months from the date of commencement of the 8th Amendment to the Maldives Tourism Act (Act No. 2/99).

Making Regulations

52.
Except for the regulations that are specified to be made by a particular authority, other regulations to be made under this Act shall be made and implemented by a party designated by the President of the Republic for that purpose.

Definitions

53.
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:

(a) "Tourist Resort" means an island prepared for the accommodation of tourists with arrangements for sleeping and dining.

(b) "Tourist Hotel" means an establishment, other than a tourist resort, resort hotel, or tourist guesthouse, prepared in a part of an island for the accommodation of tourists with arrangements for sleeping and dining, and equipped with facilities determined by the Ministry of Tourism.

(c) "Resort Hotel" means an establishment prepared in a part of an island for the accommodation of tourists with arrangements for sleeping and dining, including facilities and services determined by the Ministry.

(d) "Tourist Guesthouse" means an establishment developed on plots of land leased for residential purposes or on land leased by the council, comprising rooms for the accommodation of tourists with sleeping arrangements.

(e) "Tourist Vessel" means a vessel prepared for the accommodation of tourists with arrangements for sleeping and dining at a standard determined by the Ministry of Tourism, and for which a specific rate is charged for each day spent on board.

(f) "Yacht Marina" means a harbor prepared for the anchoring of yachts and other such vessels, and for providing various services to such vessels.

(g) "Diving Services" means diving schools, diving bases, and other parties providing diving services in the Maldives for the purpose of serving tourists.

(h) "Travel Agency Service" means the service provided by travel agencies, tour operators, and other parties who arrange and conduct, on a commercial basis, the travel of persons arriving in the Maldives and persons departing from the Maldives, excluding the travel of Maldivians going abroad for Hajj and Umrah.

(i) "Investment Company" means banks, insurance companies, and other such financial companies, and companies established to manage and invest the funds of various parties.

(j) "Tourist" means any person who arrives in or is in the Maldives on a "Tourist Visa" as specified in subsection (a)(1) of section 9 of the Maldives Immigration Act (Act No. 1/2007).

(k) "Tourism-related Matters" means the development and operation of tourist resorts, resort hotels, hotels, tourist guesthouses, and yacht marinas, and the provision of services such as diving, water sports, and excursions specifically for tourists arriving in the Maldives.

(l) "Acquisition Fee" means the fee determined by the Ministry of Tourism, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, for the acquisition of leasehold rights related to an island, land, or lagoon, based on the proposed project for the island, land, or lagoon to be leased for tourism-related purposes, taking into account the market price at the time.

(m) "Tourism Real Estate Development Project" means a development project determined by the Cabinet of Ministers, to be implemented through a company wholly owned by the government, on a real estate basis in the tourism sector, specifically for increasing foreign investment in that sector.

(n) "Company Wholly Owned by the Government" means a company in which all the shares comprising its capital are held in the name of the government, or in the name of a company wholly owned by the government, or in the name of more than one company wholly owned by the government.

Repealed Laws

54.
Upon the commencement of this Act, the Maldives Tourism Act (Act No. 15/79) and the Act on Leasing of Uninhabited Islands for the Development of Tourist Resorts (Act No. 3/94) are repealed.

Schedule 1

Rent for Islands and Lands Leased for the Development of Tourist Resorts, Tourist Hotels, Yacht Marinas, and Integrated Tourism Projects
Atoll	For lands smaller than 200,000 square meters	For lands between 200,001 and 400,000 square meters	For lands larger than 400,001 square meters
Gn, S	2 US dollars per square meter per year (up to 250,000 dollars)	400,000 US dollars per year	800,000 US dollars per year
HA, HDh, Sh	4 US dollars per square meter per year (up to 500,000 dollars)	750,000 US dollars per year	1,000,000 US dollars per year
N, R, B, Lh, K, AA, ADh, V, M, F, Dh	8 US dollars per square meter per year (up to 1,000,000 dollars)	1,500,000 US dollars per year	1,500,000 US dollars per year
Th, L, GA, GDh	6 US dollars per square meter per year (up to 750,000 dollars)	1,125,000 US dollars per year	1,500,000 US dollars per year

Schedule 2

Rent for Lands Leased for Tourism Purposes from Inhabited Islands
Atoll	For lands smaller than 200,000 square meters	For lands between 200,001 and 400,000 square meters	For lands larger than 400,001 square meters
Gn, S	1 US dollar per square meter per year (up to 125,000 US dollars)	200,000 US dollars per year	400,000 US dollars per year
HA, HDh	2 US dollars per square meter per year (up to 250,000 US dollars)	375,000 US dollars per year	500,000 US dollars per year
N, R, B, Lh, K, AA, ADh, V, M, F, Dh	4 US dollars per square meter per year (up to 500,000 US dollars)	750,000 US dollars per year	1,000,000 US dollars per year
Sh, Th, L, GA, GDh	3 US dollars per square meter per year (up to 375,000 US dollars)	562,500 US dollars per year	750,000 US dollars per year
Male' City	95 US dollars per square meter per year	95 US dollars per square meter per year	95 US dollars per square meter per year
