Maldives Pension Act

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This is a law concerning the establishment and operation of a retirement pension scheme—funded by contributions from employers and employees, which are then invested to generate returns—and other pension schemes funded by the government budget, in order to provide pensions for employed persons.
(b) This law shall be cited as the "Maldives Pension Act."

Maldives Pension Administration Office

Pension Office

    Upon the commencement of this Act, a separate office by the name of "Maldives Pension Administration Office" is hereby established. This Pension Office is an independent legal entity, established to exist in perpetuity, possessing the power to sue and be sued in its own name, the right to acquire, hold, and transact with movable and immovable property as permitted by law, and having its own seal.

Main Functions of the Pension Office

    The main functions of the Pension Office are:
    (a) To administer the pension schemes established under this Act.
    (b) To provide the Maldives Retirement Pension.
    (c) To formulate regulations regarding the administration of schemes established under this Act, and to create related standards and guidelines.
    (d) To disburse funds for the Basic Pension for the Elderly of the Maldives, established under this Act.
    (e) To conduct programs to increase awareness regarding the pension schemes established under this Act.
    (f) To undertake any other tasks deemed necessary by the Pension Office to carry out the duties assigned to it under this Act.

Information to be Submitted by the Pension Office

4.
(a) The Pension Office shall submit the following information to the Securities Market Regulator.
1. Annual accounts of assets, financial liabilities, income, and expenditure, audited by an independent accounting firm acceptable to the Auditor General. This shall include the amount and proportion of pension assets invested in various types of assets, the gross and net return on those investments, and all related fees. These fees include asset management fees, service fees, and fees for financial transactions. If the Securities Market Regulator deems it necessary, it may request additional information regarding these accounts from the Pension Office's auditor, the Pension Office, or any other professional service provider.
2. A quarterly detailed report of the amount of pension assets sold and purchased. This shall include the name of the asset, the date of the transaction, the price, and the return on that investment.
(b) In addition to the information specified in subsection (a) of this section, if any change is made to the "Statement of Investment Principles" following any meeting of the Pension Office Board, that change shall be submitted to the Securities Market Regulator.
(c) In addition to the information specified in subsections (a) and (b) of this section, if the Securities Market Regulator requires any other information, it may specify that information and the manner in which it should be submitted. The Securities Market Regulator may, if necessary, appoint independent auditors and other professional service providers to conduct various surveys, carry out actuarial evaluations, and to inspect the accounts, books, documents, and other records of the Pension Office.
(d) The Pension Office shall publicly disclose the information specified in subsection 4(a)(1). The Pension Office shall arrange for the publication of this information.

Pension Supervision Department

    The Securities Market Regulator shall establish a Pension Supervision Department to perform the following functions:
    (a) To monitor the manner in which pension assets are invested and the performance of those investments.
    (b) To establish procedures for preparing and publicizing reports related to the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme.
    (c) To oversee the process of appointing members to the Pension Office Board and to monitor the preparation of reports required to be prepared by the Pension Office Board under this Act.
    (d) To take necessary steps to enforce the matters stated in this Act as duties of the Securities Market Regulator.

General Powers of the Pension Office Board

    The Pension Office Board is vested with all powers to carry out the functions required of the Pension Office under this Act and the regulations made hereunder. These powers include the power to do the following:
    (a) To conduct tenders to select external asset managers, custodians, and open-ended vehicles who are considered fiduciaries under Section 13 of this Act.
    (b) To enter into agreements with asset managers, custodians, open-ended vehicles, accountants, auditors, and other service providers, and to perform all necessary actions under such agreements.
    (c) To direct and obtain information regarding all transactions conducted by asset managers, custodians, open-ended vehicles, and other service providers in relation to the Scheme.
    (d) To levy a reasonable fee from the participants of the Scheme, in consultation with the Regulatory Authority, to cover the administrative costs of the Retirement Pension Scheme.
    (e) To buy, sell, and rent movable and immovable property required for the administration of the Pension Office.
    (f) To employ and terminate staff required for the administration of the Pension Office. This includes the appointment of a Chief Executive Officer.
    (g) To prepare the budget of the Pension Office.
    (h) To enter into contracts and agreements with government institutions to conduct programs such as social security programs. To establish principles on how to run programs conducted in relation to such agreements.
    (i) To hold Board meetings of the Pension Office, and to formulate necessary regulations for the administration of the Pension Office. And to conduct all affairs of the Pension Office in accordance with this Act and its regulations.
    (j) To operate a scheme, consistent with this Act, for the members of the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme, allowing the funds in the pension fund to be collateralized for housing programs, and to enter into agreements with relevant parties for the operation of such a scheme. And to establish principles on how to run schemes operated in relation to such agreements.
    (k) To establish arrangements, consistent with this Act, for members of the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme who meet the criteria set out in this Act, to pay for the performance of the obligatory Hajj pilgrimage from the funds accumulated in their Retirement Savings Account, and to establish all principles for the disbursement of funds for performing the obligatory Hajj pilgrimage.
    (l) To have the discretion to operate a scheme aimed at those members of the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme who wish to accumulate funds through the Pension Office to perform the obligatory Hajj pilgrimage, and to establish the necessary principles for operating such a scheme.

Financial Administration and Budget of the Pension Office

7.
(a) The Pension Office shall be administered by a reasonable fee levied from the participants of the Retirement Pension Scheme as specified in Section 6(d) of this Act, and by funds received for the annual budget of the Pension Office from the government budget for administering the Basic Pension for the Elderly scheme and for overseeing pension matters. Until the pension assets have grown to a level where all administrative costs of the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme can be covered by fees levied from the scheme's participants as specified in Section 6(d) of this Act, the administrative costs of this scheme may be subsidized by the government budget.
(b) The Ministry of Finance and Treasury shall seek approval for the funds provided from the government budget to the Pension Office's budget under this Act.
(c) The Pension Office shall at all times keep its administrative budget separate from the pension assets.

The Pension Office Board

8.
(a) The Pension Office shall be managed by a Board comprising the following 8 (eight) members.
1. The Chairman of the Board.
2. A senior official of the Securities Market Regulator.
3. A senior official from the Civil Service of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury.
4. A senior official from the Civil Service of the Ministry responsible for social security matters.
5. 4 (four) individuals from the private sector who do not hold a government position and are not in government employment.
(b) The representative of the Securities Market Regulator on the Board shall be a non-voting member.
(c) The members of the Pension Office Board shall be appointed by the President of the Republic. The first Board of the Pension Office shall be appointed and finalized within 3 (three) months from the date this Act comes into force. The Chairman of the Pension Office Board and the 4 (four) members appointed from the private sector shall be appointed from a list prepared by a Selection Committee formed jointly by the Civil Service Commission, the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and the Ministry responsible for social security matters. To select members for the vacant positions specified in Section 8(a)(1) and (5), the Selection Committee shall propose at least 3 (three) candidates for each position. The administrative matters related to the appointment of individuals selected by the Selection Committee shall be handled by the Pension Office. Before submitting to the President of the Republic for the appointment of the Pension Office Board members, the members selected on behalf of government offices and the members selected by the Selection Committee shall be submitted to the Securities Market Regulator to verify that they meet the required qualifications. No member selected by the Selection Committee shall be a family member (spouse, parent, child, full sibling, half-sibling by mother, or half-sibling by father) of any member of the Committee, any member of the Pension Office Board, or any person holding the rank of a Minister or higher.
(d) The members of the Pension Office Board must be individuals who have not been convicted of a breach of trust, have not lost their reputation, are capable of fulfilling the responsibilities of the position, and possess professional competence in pension, financial matters, or investment. They must also meet the following criteria:
1. The Chairman of the Pension Office Board and the 4 (four) members appointed from the private sector must have obtained a first degree in business, economics, or law, and have experience working in the financial, pension, or investment field.
2. Not be a person who has been declared bankrupt. And not be a person convicted of theft, tax evasion, robbery, breach of trust, or corruption.
3. Not be an official or employee of an Asset Manager or Custodian of the Pension Office. And not be a person who owns five percent or more of the shares of such an Asset Manager or Custodian, as defined in the Maldives Financial Securities Act.
(e) The remuneration provided to the members of the Pension Office Board shall be approximately equivalent to the remuneration provided to members of the boards or expert advisors of other similar financial institutions or pension funds.
(f) Upon appointment to the Pension Office Board and annually thereafter for the duration of their term, members appointed to the Board shall submit a confidential statement of their income and property owned to the Securities Market Regulator. The Securities Market Regulator shall determine the format for the information to be included in this confidential statement. This information shall not be made public.

Meetings of the Pension Office Board

(g) When this Act first comes into force, meetings of the Pension Office Board shall be held once every three months. However, once this Act is fully implemented, the frequency of the Pension Office Board meetings may be reduced. Nevertheless, at least two meetings shall be held annually. Meetings of the Pension Office Board shall be chaired by the Chairman of the Board. In the absence of the Chairman, the meeting shall be chaired by a member elected from among the members present at that meeting. The member so elected shall not be the representative of the Securities Market Regulator.

Quorum

(h) The quorum of the Pension Office Board shall be met with the presence of 4 (four) members entitled to vote. A matter shall be decided by the Board with a majority of the session. If the votes on any matter are equal, the Chairman may cast a vote.

Investment Committee

9.
(a) There shall be an Investment Committee composed of 3 (three) members from among the members of the Pension Office Board. This committee shall consist of 2 (two) members who are not in government employment and the member from the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. The 2 (two) members of this committee who are not in government employment shall be appointed by the Pension Office Board. And these 2 (two) members may be replaced if necessary.
(b) The Statement of Investment Principles, containing the policies to be determined regarding the investment of pension assets, shall be formulated by the Investment Committee.
(c) The policies contained in the Statement of Investment Principles determined by the Investment Committee shall come into effect upon their approval by the Pension Office Board. The Pension Office Board shall review and regularly amend the Statement of Investment Principles within a specified period.
(d) In determining the investment policy referred to in this Act, assistance from relevant experts may be sought from within the Maldives or from abroad.

Term and Removal of Pension Office Board Members

10.
(a) The term of office for members of the Pension Office Board shall be 3 (three) years from the date the member assumes office. In connection with the commencement of this Act, for the first time, the term of office for 2 (two) of the 4 (four) members appointed to the Pension Office Board under Section 8(a)(5) shall be 2 (two) years.
(b) Members of the Pension Office Board may be removed from office by the President of the Republic. A member may be removed from office if the member is unable to perform their duties, or if a qualification required for members under this Act is lost, or if convicted of a crime, or if a fiduciary duty is breached, or in a situation of being physically or mentally unable to perform the duties of the office for a period of 2 (two) months or longer, or if absent from 3 (three) or more meetings of the Pension Office Board without a valid excuse.
(c) A member of the Pension Office Board shall not provide any service in any professional capacity to an Asset Manager or Custodian of the Pension Office within 12 (twelve) months from the date of removal from membership. Violation of this section is an offense.
(d) No member of the Pension Office Board shall, in any capacity, accept anything given as a gift, a loan, or a benefit from an Asset Manager or Custodian of the Pension Office, or a party related to them, or from any party providing any service to the Pension Office. Family members (spouse, parents, children, full siblings, half-siblings by mother, or half-siblings by father) of the members of the Pension Office Board are also included in this provision.
(e) The Maldives Securities Market Regulator shall keep the President of the Republic informed of the level of competence of the members of the Pension Office Board to bear their responsibilities, the standard at which they are performing their duties, and if any of the qualifications required for members under this Act are lost.

Basic Pension for the Elderly

Establishment of the Basic Pension for the Elderly

11.
(a) The Pension Office shall provide a Basic Pension for the Elderly to persons who reach the pension eligibility age under this Act, in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder. The amount received as Basic Pension for the Elderly may be adjusted in proportion to the amount received as retirement pension, government employees' pension, or any other pension under this or any other law.
(b) If the amount of pension received from the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme is less than twice the basic pension, the Basic Pension for the Elderly shall be provided after deducting 50% (fifty percent) of the amount received as that pension from the basic pension. Accordingly, the basic pension shall be calculated by including the amount deducted from the Retirement Savings Account under this Act for performing the obligatory Hajj.
(c) If the amount of pension received from the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme is more than twice the basic pension, no Basic Pension for the Elderly shall be received. However, if less than MVR 5,000/- (five thousand) is received as other state pensions, the total amount received, including other state pensions and the basic pension, shall be up to a total of MVR 5,000/- (five thousand).
(d) Persons who are cared for full-time at the state's expense and persons detained in prison due to a criminal conviction are not entitled to the basic pension.
(e) The age for receiving the basic pension is 65 years. An individual shall be deemed to have reached the pension eligibility age on the first day of the month in which they turn 65.

Budget for the Basic Pension for the Elderly

(f) The Pension Office, in consultation with the Ministry responsible for social security matters, shall prepare a budget for providing the Basic Pension for the Elderly and submit it to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury for inclusion in that year's government budget. This budget shall include the expenses required to provide the basic pension and the administrative expenses required to run this scheme. These are expenses planned to be covered by government revenue.
(g) The monthly amount payable to a person as Basic Pension for the Elderly shall be MVR 5,000/- (five thousand). The Ministry responsible for social security matters and the Ministry responsible for financial matters shall review the amount of the basic pension every 1 (one) to 3 (three) calendar years, based on the increase in the cost of living. If, upon such review, it is deemed necessary to change the amount of the basic pension after considering the cost of living, the amount of the basic pension shall be amended. After amending the amount of the basic pension, the basic pension shall be paid to newly eligible persons and to persons already receiving the basic pension, in accordance with the amended amount.
(h) The Pension Office has the discretion to change the amount of basic pension a person has been receiving, in accordance with any changes to the amount of pension received under this Act or any other pension.
(i) The procedure for persons eligible for the Basic Pension to apply for and receive this pension shall be determined by the Pension Office Board within 3 (three) months of its appointment. Arrangements for identifying persons eligible for the Basic Pension and providing the pension to them shall be completed within 6 (six) months of the appointment of the Pension Office Board.
(j) The Basic Pension shall commence from the date a person becomes entitled to a pension due to the commencement of this Act, or if the pension eligibility age is reached after that date, from the date the pension eligibility age is reached, whichever is the later of these two dates.

Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme

Establishment of the Retirement Pension Scheme

12.
(a) A retirement pension scheme, funded by contributions of a specified amount from the employer and the employee, with the proceeds from investing those funds, shall be established under this Act under the name "Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme."
(b) It is mandatory for the employer to enroll every employee who has not reached the pension eligibility age in the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme to provide a pension in accordance with this Act. And it is mandatory for the employee to participate in this scheme. The manner of deducting the funds to be paid by the employee as a pension contribution shall be stated in the employment agreement.
(c) Violation of subsection (b) of this section is an offense.
(d) A Retirement Savings Account shall be opened in the name of each participant of the pension scheme. The funds paid by each member and on behalf of a member to the pension scheme shall be credited to their Retirement Savings Account. All profits and losses from investing that money shall be proportionally distributed to their account. The administrative costs of the scheme may also be proportionally deducted from that account. The balance of the account after deducting administrative costs is the legal property of that member.
(e) The government shall make arrangements for the participation of state employees in the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme within a maximum of 12 (twelve) months from the commencement of this Act.
(f) The Pension Office shall, within a maximum of 12 (twelve) months from the date this Act comes into force, determine a period for enrolling employees working for entities other than the state in the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme. And employees working in jobs other than government jobs shall be enrolled in the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme and completed within a maximum of 2 (two) years from the commencement of this Act.
(g) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in subsection (f) of this section, the Pension Office Board shall, within a maximum of 12 (twelve) months from the date the first amendment to this Act comes into force, formulate a procedure for foreign nationals working in the Maldives to participate in the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme.

Fiduciary Duty of the Scheme

13.
(a) Persons and legal entities who have the responsibility to undertake any of the matters stated below shall be fiduciaries before the participants of the Scheme and the beneficiaries of the Scheme.
1. Being a party with the discretion to make any decision in any matter related to the administration of the Scheme, or the management and disposition of Pension Assets.
2. Giving any advice to the Board regarding investment, or even if such advice is not given, being a party with the responsibility to give such advice.
(b) Every fiduciary shall perform their duties as a person with reasonable skill and competence in financial matters would. If this level of skill and competence is lacking, the service of experts in that field shall be sought.
(c) Any proposal regarding the investment of Pension Assets, if submitted by the government or any other party, shall be submitted in writing. And that proposal shall be publicly disclosed.

Contribution to the Scheme

14.
(a) Each person who is a participant of the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme shall contribute at least 7% of their pensionable wage, and the employer who has employed that employee shall contribute at least 7% of the pensionable wage to the Scheme. Contributions to the scheme are arranged for employed staff between the ages of 16 and 65. People over 65 are not required to contribute to the scheme. The Pension Office shall, within 6 (six) months of the appointment of the Pension Office Board, determine the principles for contributing to the scheme and make regulations regarding it. These regulations shall specify the maximum and minimum amounts that can be contributed to the pension scheme.
(b) In accordance with the regulations made by the Pension Office, reports of the funds contributed by each employee and by the employer who has employed that employee shall be regularly submitted to the Pension Office. The regulation regarding the submission of this report shall be made by the Pension Office within 6 (six) months of the appointment of the Pension Office Board.
(c) The regulations referred to in subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall include details on how self-employed persons who wish to participate in the scheme shall contribute. Such persons shall contribute the total of 14% that is required from both the employer and the employee. The Pension Office shall issue regulations on how to determine the pensionable wage for the purpose of determining the amount of money to be paid by such persons.
(d) The government has the discretion to subsidize a portion of the amount determined by the Pension Office as the contribution to be made by self-employed persons and fishermen to the scheme, based on an agreement between the Pension Office and the government, and in a manner specified in the regulations issued by the Pension Office.
(e) If the employer agrees, this Act does not prevent an arrangement where, instead of deducting contributions from the employee as stated in subsection (a) of this section, only the employer contributes an amount not less than 14% of the employee's pensionable wage to the scheme.
(f) The Pension Office shall provide a statement regarding the Retirement Savings Account of each participant of the scheme to them regularly every year. This statement shall contain information about the person, the funds contributed to their account, the party who contributed the funds, the investment performance of the funds accumulated in the account, and details of the benefits disbursed to that person under the scheme.

Deduction of Contributions to the Scheme

    When an employer pays salary to an employee, the following shall be done:

    Deduct the amount the employee must contribute to the scheme from the salary.

    The total amount of the contribution payable by the employee and the employer to the scheme under Section 14 of this Act shall be paid to an account designated by the Pension Office within 7 (seven) working days from the date the employee is paid their salary.

Investment of Scheme Funds

16.
(a) Pension assets shall be invested in accordance with the manner specified in this Act, and solely in a manner that yields the maximum benefit for the participants and beneficiaries of the scheme. The following matters shall be considered in such investments:
1. The security of the assets.
2. The diversity of the investments.
3. Investing in the most profitable asset, considering the security of the assets.
4. Maintaining an adequate level of liquidity.
(b) The basic principles of investment shall be determined by a Pension Investment Committee, formed from among the members of the Pension Office Board, with independent professional advice and in a manner not conflicting with the regulations of the Securities Market Regulator. The basic principles of investment shall state the following matters:
1. The method of fulfilling the requirements to be met under this Act.
2. The instruments in which pension assets may be invested.
3. The performance benchmarks that the Pension Office Board aims to achieve by investing pension assets.
4. The main risks in investing pension assets and the ways to manage those risks.
5. The parties responsible for determining the methods of investment and generating returns.
6. The principles to be followed in making decisions regarding investment.
7. The method of reviewing the basic principles of investment.
(c) The basic principles of investment shall be regularly reviewed by the Investment Committee with the agreement of the Pension Office Board.
(d) Pension assets shall be invested in the Maldives in the following types of assets:
1. Monetary funds such as accounts and deposits in banks licensed by the Maldives Monetary Authority, excluding banks against which enforcement action is being taken and whose license is at risk of being suspended.
2. Securities issued by a relevant authority of the Maldivian government, guaranteed by that authority up to a certain amount.
3. Securities issued by commercial entities that are listed on a licensed stock exchange in the Maldives.
4. Mutual funds and investment funds duly authorized in the Maldives.
(e) Pension assets shall be invested outside the Maldives in the following types of assets:
1. Monetary funds such as bank accounts and deposits in banks licensed by a bank regulating authority in the country of investment, excluding banks against which enforcement action is being taken and whose license is at risk of being suspended.
2. Securities issued by a relevant authority in the country of investment, guaranteed by that authority up to a certain amount.
3. Securities issued by the central or regional government of the country of investment, guaranteed by that authority up to a certain amount.
4. Securities registered with a securities market regulating body in that country, which are listed on a stock exchange and are under the supervision of a relevant securities market regulator.
5. Open-ended vehicles authorized by the government of that place.
(f) Pension assets shall not be invested in any of the following types of assets:
1. Unlisted or not publicly traded securities.
2. Assets that cannot be legally separated from other assets.
3. Specific types of derivative instruments as determined by the Securities Market Regulator.
4. Real estate not listed on a regularly organized market and other property for which a definite price cannot be established.
5. Other types of assets determined by the Securities Market Regulator.
(g) The Securities Market Regulator shall monitor whether the investment of pension assets under this Act is carried out in accordance with the law and the Statement of Investment Principles. And the Securities Market Regulator shall identify countries with sufficiently developed financial markets for the investment of pension assets.
(h) The Pension Office Board shall determine and specify in its regulations the amount that can be invested in different and specific investments when investing pension assets.
(i)
1. When investing pension assets, changes that need to be made to the invested pension assets shall be made in accordance with the Statement of Investment Principles established under this Act and without conflicting with other sections of this Act, due to changes in financial market prices, changes in foreign exchange rates, changes in the economic relations between the places where pension assets are invested or the way they are organized, or due to circumstances beyond the control of the asset manager.
2. Thus, the changes that need to be made to the investment of pension assets shall be made to conform again with this Act and the policies stated in the Statement of Investment Principles within 6 (six) months from the date of deviation from the policies stated in the Statement of Investment Principles, or the date the deviation in asset valuation was known, whichever is later.

Asset Managers

17.
(a) Asset managers in the Maldives must be legal entities licensed by the Securities Market Regulator to manage assets. Asset managers must meet the following criteria:
1. No enforcement action has been taken against them for non-compliance with any matter, and their license has not been temporarily suspended.
2. Not be a party related to the Custodian or a member of the Pension Office Board; and
3. Not be a party that lends or borrows money on credit to or from the Custodian or a related party.
(b) Asset managers shall be selected through a competitive bidding process. The procedures and conditions of the bid, and the pre-qualification requirements to apply for the position of asset manager, shall be approved by the Pension Office Board.
(c) Asset managers shall manage pension assets in accordance with the asset management agreement made between the asset manager and the Pension Office.
(d) The asset management agreement shall state that asset management activities must be conducted solely through the appointed Custodian. Other matters that must be included in the asset management agreement shall also be determined by the Pension Office Board.
(e) The pension assets managed under this Act are not the private property of the asset manager. Nor are they something that can be affected in a matter enforced against him, or in the bankruptcy of the asset manager.
(f) The Pension Office Board may decide that it is most appropriate to invest pension assets, or a part thereof, in open-ended vehicles. If so, one or more open-ended vehicles may be selected through a competitive bidding process, and the standard agreement used by that party may be signed. The procedures and conditions of the bid, and the pre-qualification requirements to apply, shall be approved by the Pension Office Board under this Act.
(g) Open-ended vehicles used for investing pension assets must be licensed by the Securities Market Regulator. If it is a foreign entity, it must be authorized by the central bank or the financial regulatory authority of that country.
(h) The requirements to be met under Section 19 of this Act do not need to be fulfilled in relation to pension assets held in an open-ended vehicle.
(i) The Securities Market Regulator shall monitor whether the asset manager performs the tasks required for investing pension assets under this Act in accordance with the law.

Custodian

18.
(a) The Pension Office shall appoint one Custodian to hold the pension assets invested by the asset managers and enter into an agreement with that party stating the duties and responsibilities to be performed by the Custodian.
(b) The Custodian shall be appointed through a competitive bidding process. The procedures and conditions of the bid, and the pre-qualification requirements to apply for the position of Custodian, shall be determined and approved by the Pension Office Board under this Act.
(c) A Custodian may be entrusted with holding the assets of more than one party. However, the assets, operations, and records of the Pension Office must be kept separate in a way that they do not mix with the assets of other parties and the Custodian's own assets.
(d) A legal entity registered in the Maldives may become a Custodian if the following conditions are met:
1. Being authorized by the Securities Market Regulator to perform that work, with no enforcement order currently active against it, and its license not being suspended.
2. Not being an asset manager of the Pension Office and not being a party related to or having a connection with an asset manager or a member of the Pension Office Board.
3. Not being a party that lends money on credit to or borrows money on credit from an asset manager or a party related to or having a connection with it.
(e) A foreign Custodian must be an entity licensed by the banking, financial services, or securities market regulator of its country, with no enforcement order currently active against it, and its license not being suspended, and must meet other conditions determined by the Securities Market Regulator.
(f) The work of the Custodian shall include the following:
1. Accepting and holding paper securities that are part of the pension assets.
2. Maintaining records of paperless securities that are part of the pension assets.
3. Receiving and holding documents related to the transfer and issuance of monetary funds that are part of the pension assets.
4. Making entries in the correspondent accounts in the register of pension assets entrusted to the Custodian.
5. Providing the information necessary for the Pension Office to perform its duties under this Act.
6. Ensuring that agreements made regarding the acquisition and disposal of pension assets are in accordance with this Act, the regulations made hereunder, and the basic investment principles determined by the Pension Office.
7. Acting in accordance with the instructions given by the Pension Office, as long as it does not conflict with this Act, any other law, relevant regulations, or investment principles.
8. Ensuring that pension assets are invested in a manner that does not conflict with this Act, other regulations related to asset investment, and investment principles, and if any of these are violated, to notify the Pension Office as stipulated in the agreement made with the Custodian.
9. Monitoring whether asset managers fulfill their legal obligations regarding the investment of pension assets.
10. Fulfilling all matters stated in the custody agreement and the regulations that the Custodian must adhere to.
(g) The custody agreement signed between the Pension Office and the Custodian shall state the following:
1. The responsibilities of the Custodian.
2. The manner in which the Custodian must perform its responsibilities.
3. The method of determining the Custodian's remuneration and other payable expenses and fees as a proportion of the assets under its custody.
4. Other matters to be fulfilled under the regulations of the Securities Market Regulator.
(h) The pension assets held in the custody of the Custodian under this section are not the private property of the Custodian. Nor are they something that can be affected in a matter enforced against him, or in the bankruptcy of the Custodian.
(i) This section shall not apply to assets invested through an open-ended vehicle.

Retirement Benefit

19.
(a) The pension eligibility age under this Act is 65 years.
(b) Upon reaching the pension eligibility age, the Pension Office shall, within 12 (twelve) months of the appointment of the Pension Office Board, issue regulations on how to provide the funds for benefits to which the participants of this scheme and their heirs are entitled, based on the balance remaining in their Retirement Savings Account established under the Retirement Pension Scheme.
(c) Accordingly, one or more of the following benefits may be provided:
1. A lifetime annuity payable to the participants of this scheme until death.
2. A joint annuity payable for life to a participant of this scheme or a designated heir.
3. A guaranteed annuity payable for life, arranged to provide a guaranteed amount for at least a specified number of years.
4. Other annuities approved by the Maldives Monetary Authority or the insurance regulating authority.
5. If the annuity payable to a person under this scheme is not a reasonable amount considering the administrative costs, the funds may be disbursed as an annuity paid over a long period based on an estimate of their lifespan.
(d) The Pension Office may provide an annuity to the participants of the scheme as a form of insurance. This annuity shall be provided with the approval of the Maldives Monetary Authority or the insurance regulating authority in the Maldives for this program and the factors considered in calculating this annuity. If this annuity is to be funded through insurance companies appointed on a contractual basis, the Maldives Monetary Authority or the insurance regulating authority in the Maldives shall be notified. The Maldives Monetary Authority or the insurance regulating authority in the Maldives shall make regulations concerning the licensing of these service providers, the procedures they must follow, the method of transferring funds from the Retirement Savings Account to the service providers, the types of services they can provide, and other related matters.
(e) The Pension Office shall make arrangements to notify every person participating in the scheme of their upcoming pension eligibility age in writing at least 6 (six) months before reaching that age, and to provide them with the form to apply for the benefits available under the scheme.
(f) The Pension Office Board shall determine the minimum balance in a pension account below which it would be considered too low to provide an annuity or to be spent over a long period. And the Pension Office Board shall also determine the principles for disbursing funds from this account to the participants of the pension scheme. The Pension Office Board has the discretion to change the minimum balance required in the account as stated in this section.
(g) If any participant of the Retirement Pension Scheme dies before reaching the pension eligibility age or before receiving a benefit under this Act, the money in their Retirement Savings Account shall be handed over to their heir or heirs in accordance with the law on the distribution of inheritance. This money may also be disbursed in a lump sum. If the heir or heirs are employed persons, and if they so request, the money may be deposited into their Retirement Savings Account(s).
(h) Heirs may claim the funds in a Retirement Savings Account within the period allowed for claims under the rules established by the relevant court for the distribution of inheritance.
(i) If any dispute arises in connection with money payable to an heir, the matter shall be submitted to the relevant court. The Pension Office shall act upon the decisions made by the court in this regard.
(j) The Pension Office shall allow persons appointed by a court to manage the affairs of individuals among the scheme participants and their designated heirs who are unable to manage their own financial affairs.
(k) The Pension Office has the right to recover any money mistakenly disbursed to a scheme participant or an heir.
(l) If, at the age of 55, the amount of monthly pension a participant of the Retirement Pension Scheme would receive—calculated by dividing the total funds accumulated in their Retirement Savings Account according to the pension payment rules set by the Pension Office—is greater than twice the amount of the Basic Pension for the Elderly, that person may apply for benefits under the scheme. In such cases, the contributions payable by the employee and the employer shall cease. The Pension Office shall establish regulations on how to proceed if a change in the amount of the Basic Pension for the Elderly makes persons who are receiving benefits under this section eligible for the Basic Pension for the Elderly.
(m) The Pension Office may arrange for disability insurance for employees in a manner approved by the Maldives Monetary Authority or the insurance regulating authority. The funds required to finance this shall be paid by the employer. And in such a situation, the Pension Office, with the advice of the Ministry responsible for social security matters, shall formulate special regulations for the participation of self-employed persons and fishermen in the disability insurance scheme within 3 (three) years from the date this Act comes into force. The rights to be provided under this scheme may be delivered through an agreement made by the Pension Office with a private insurance provider.
(n) Within a maximum of 6 (six) months from the date the 2nd amendment to this Act comes into force, the Pension Office shall determine and publicize regulations on how to finalize and disburse funds to foreign participants of the scheme who have a Retirement Savings Account established under the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme, based on the balance in the Retirement Savings Account.

Exemption from Tax for Contributions to the Scheme

    When determining the taxable income of an employee or an employer under any law, the amount of money contributed to the scheme shall not be included.

Transfer from one employment to another

    Even if an employee's job or place of employment changes, the Pension Office shall maintain their Retirement Savings Account in such a way that it remains unchanged.

Non-payment of Contributions to the Scheme

22.
(a) If an employer fails to pay the contributions due to the scheme before the deadline specified in this Act, the employer shall pay the outstanding amount and a fine determined by the Pension Office. The money paid as a fine in this manner shall be deposited into the employee's Retirement Savings Account. The amount of the fine shall be determined based on the amount of money due and the period for which the money was not paid.
(b) It is the responsibility of the employer to submit reports of the funds due under this scheme to the Pension Office within the period specified in this Act. Failure to do so will result in the employer being fined in a manner determined by the Pension Office, with the fine being deposited into the Pension Office's account.
(c) The Pension Office shall maintain separate records of the funds paid and payable by employees and employers.
(d) The Pension Office has the right to inspect and audit the records and documents containing information that employers must maintain regarding their employees. And the Pension Office shall make regulations on how such records should be maintained.
(e) The Pension Office shall determine the period and amount of unpaid funds that would require a case to be submitted to court for non-payment of contributions by employers, and the maximum period and financial limit for such non-payment. In cases where such matters must be submitted to court, the employer shall pay the funds due under this Act, the fine, and the fees of a legal counsel and other expenses incurred by the Pension Office for submitting the case to court.
(f) In cases of employer bankruptcy, the funds payable by the employee to the Pension Office under this Act shall be paid in the same manner as the principles established in the Employment Act for the recovery of wages due to employees.

Breach of Rules by Fiduciaries

23.
(a) If a fiduciary breaches the rules, they shall be held responsible for it. If the person who committed the act and the fiduciary is a legal entity, that party shall be held civilly liable, individually or jointly. And depending on the nature of the act, the breach of rules may be determined by the relevant court under this Act as a civil or criminal offense.
(b) If any fiduciary knows, or should have known, that another fiduciary has acted contrary to how their duty should be performed, both parties shall be held responsible for the act committed by that fiduciary. A fiduciary which is a legal entity shall be fully responsible for the actions of its employees.
(c) It shall be a breach of fiduciary duty for any fiduciary to use pension assets for their own personal use or benefit, or for the benefit of a related party. It shall also be a breach of fiduciary duty to conduct any transaction related to pension assets with a party related to the fiduciary.
(d) The following are matters that are included among breaches of fiduciary duty:
1. Making any investment or expenditure related to the pension, or authorizing such an investment or expenditure, in violation of this Act.
2. Entering into any agreement for the procurement of goods and services in violation of this Act.
3. Failing to perform a responsibility due under a contract made in relation to the Scheme.
(e) In compensation for the loss incurred due to a fiduciary's failure to perform their duty, the court shall decide that the fiduciary pay funds as follows:
1. To pay an amount not exceeding three times the loss incurred, based on the loss incurred.
2. The fees of a legal counsel and other expenses incurred in recovering the loss.
(f) A person or legal entity found guilty of failing to perform a fiduciary duty shall be prohibited from providing any service to the Scheme for a period of at least 10 (ten) years.
(g) The Pension Office Board shall establish a system for reviewing complaints submitted by participants of the pension scheme, employers, and other stakeholders in this scheme. And this system shall be described in the regulations formulated by the Pension Office Board.

Transitional Arrangements for the Government Employees' Pension Program

24.
(a) All accrued pension rights due to government employees shall be protected. For those aged 63 or older at the commencement of this Act, the accrued pension rights they were entitled to under the laws and regulations established prior to this Act shall be protected by this Act.
(b) For government employees who are under 65 years of age at the commencement of this Act, the accrued pension rights due to them will be credited to their Retirement Savings Accounts in the form of government Recognition Bonds. The Recognition Bonds credited in this manner must be of a capital value equivalent to the accrued pension rights due to that person before the commencement of this Act. And interest will be paid on the capital at an interest rate determined by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury under relevant regulations.
(c) Within 6 months of the appointment of the Pension Office Board, the Pension Office Board shall submit to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury arrangements for identifying and providing the accrued pension rights to government employees who are under 63 years of age at the commencement of this Act. In determining these arrangements, the following matters shall be considered:
1. The pension that was being received for the period of service as government employees up to the pension age shall continue to be received until that age is reached.
2. Upon reaching the pension age under this Act, government employees shall receive the basic pension for the elderly and/or the Maldives Retirement Pension as stated in this Act.
3. The Maldives Retirement Pension to be provided under this Act shall be determined by the total balance of the Retirement Savings Account. This includes the Recognition Bonds credited to value the accrued rights.
4. The accrued pension rights due to government employees before the commencement of this Act shall be credited to the employee's Retirement Savings Account in the form of government Recognition Bonds upon the commencement of this Act. Once the Recognition Bonds are credited to the employees' accounts to value the accrued pension rights, those Recognition Bonds are the legal property of that member. And the government has no right to cancel those bonds.

Collateralization of Pension Fund Money

Collateralizing Down Payments for Housing Projects

25.
(a) For the purpose of purchasing housing units that have been completed and are being sold to the public, the funds required for the down payment may be collateralized from the funds held in a person's name in the pension fund, in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.
(b) Unless otherwise specified by this Act or another law, the collateralized funds shall be considered as funds held for the benefit of the party that accepts the collateral or the lender, in the event the borrower fails to repay the loan.
(c) The Pension Office shall maintain separate accounts for the funds collateralized under this Act.

Main Conditions and Principles of Collateralization

26.
(a) Funds from the pension fund may be held as collateral as specified in this Act only for a loan issued by a bank through which the housing is purchased, or a loan issued by a company financing the housing development, or a loan issued by any other such financial institution.
(b) The funds collateralized under this Act shall be solely for the down payment of the loan. Apart from the funds required for the down payment of the loan, no funds from the pension fund shall be spent on loan interest or any other expense.

Principles of Collateralization

27.
(a) The regulations containing the principles regarding the collateralization of down payments under this Act shall be determined and published by the Pension Office Board within 3 (three) months from the date the 3rd amendment to Law No. 8/2009 (Maldives Pension Act) comes into force.
(b) In the regulation formulated under subsection (a) of this section, the Pension Office Board shall determine the standards to assess the repayment capacity of the housing purchaser, the principles regarding the retirement of a person whose funds have been collateralized, and all other applicable principles related to the matter.

The Amount of Collateral to be Determined

28.
(a) The guarantee of the collateral provided under this Act must be for a specific amount equal to the down payment and shall under no circumstances exceed that amount. And the Pension Office Board must ensure that this is confirmed in the relevant documents.
(b) Except in a situation of collateralization under the collateral agreement, the funds collateralized from the pension fund shall not be spent.

Disbursement of Funds from the Retirement Savings Account for Performing the Obligatory Hajj Pilgrimage

Disbursement of Funds for Hajj

    Although funds from the Retirement Savings Account are disbursed upon reaching the pension eligibility age under Sections 19(a) and (d) of this Act, funds may be disbursed from the Retirement Savings Account for the participants of the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme to perform the obligatory Hajj pilgrimage in accordance with the conditions of this Act.

Conditions for Disbursing Funds for Hajj

    Funds may be disbursed from the Retirement Savings Account for a participant of the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme to perform the obligatory Hajj pilgrimage if the following conditions are met:
    (a) The person has not performed the obligatory Hajj pilgrimage before;
    (b) The person is someone who, at the time of applying for the disbursement of funds for Hajj, has an amount in their Retirement Savings Account sufficient to provide a monthly pension of MVR 2,000/- (two thousand) from the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme upon reaching the pension eligibility age.

Amount Disbursable for Hajj

    The amount that can be disbursed from the Retirement Savings Account for performing the obligatory Hajj pilgrimage is 80% (eighty percent) of the official cost determined by the government for going to Hajj in that year.

Principles Regarding Disbursement of Funds for Hajj

32.
(a) The regulations containing the principles for disbursing funds for performing the obligatory Hajj pilgrimage under this Act shall be determined and publicly published by the Pension Office Board within 3 (three) months from the date the 4th amendment to the Maldives Pension Act comes into force.
(b) In the regulation formulated under subsection (a) of this section, the Pension Office Board shall determine the total number of people for whom funds can be disbursed from the Retirement Savings Account for Hajj each calendar year, the method of disbursing the Hajj funds, and all other related principles of action.

Definitions

    Unless a word or phrase is explicitly used in a different meaning, the meaning of the word or phrase for the purpose of this Act is as follows.

"Retirement Savings Account" refers to the individual account of a participant maintained under the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme operated under this Act, which reflects the contributions made by and/or on behalf of the participant, the profits and losses from its investment, and permissible expenses.

"Pension Assets" refers to the money collected under this Act to provide the Maldives Retirement Pension, and the money obtained from investing that money.

"Scheme" refers to the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme established under this Act.

"Employee" refers to a person who performs work (excluding persons who have previously performed work) and includes police and military personnel, in the sense given to this term in the Employment Act.

"Employer" refers to the meaning given to this term in the Employment Act.

"Pensionable Wage" refers to the salaries and benefits determined as pensionable wage in the regulations made by the Pension Office Board.

"Custodian" refers to a licensed entity, such as a bank, that holds pension assets or provides the service of depositing and holding pension assets under an agreement made with the Pension Office for that purpose. A Custodian is a fiduciary under this Act.

"Pension Office" refers to the Maldives Pension Administration Office established under this Act.

"Board" refers to the Board of the Pension Office.

"Related Party" refers to persons and legal entities deemed to have the power to make decisions on behalf of a person or a legal entity, and parties who have any direct or indirect interest in an action taken by a person or legal entity. And it refers to the meaning given to this term in the Maldives Securities Act.

"Annuity" refers to an insurance policy purchased from an insurance company or otherwise, to provide a fixed monthly payment for life to a participant of the scheme or their beneficiaries, or a fixed monthly payment made to a participant of the scheme or their beneficiaries in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

"Asset Manager" refers to a legal institution that invests and manages pension assets, or provides advice regarding the investment of pension assets, under an agreement made with the Pension Office. Asset managers are included among the fiduciaries mentioned in this Act.

"Beneficiary" refers to a person entitled to receive money from the scheme under the rights of a person who has participated in the scheme under this Act, and their heirs under the law of inheritance.

"Fiduciary" refers to a party who has been entrusted with, or has undertaken to perform, the power or authority to manage or transact matters related to the pension and pension assets, as provided in this Act.

"Open-Ended Vehicle" refers to companies operated as investment companies, which are authorized to issue an unlimited number of shares, allowing the purchaser of shares to become a shareholder in proportion to the shares they purchase. This includes mutual funds, investment funds, unit trusts, insurance policies, and other vehicles that operate the business of investing with the participation of many parties.

"Scheme Participants" refers to the persons on whose behalf their employer and the participant contribute money to the scheme.

"Self-Employed" refers to earning income by selling goods, providing a service, or performing work, in a manner that one is not an employee of any party as per the Employment Act, and not under the control or supervision of an employer.

"Fishermen" refers to persons who engage in fishing to earn their livelihood and are not employees of any party.

"Derivative Instrument" refers to a financial security whose value is based on another security.

"Accrued Pension Right" refers to a right to a benefit that is due under specific principles established for providing a pension or retirement benefit before the commencement of this Act.

"Capital Market Development Authority" refers to the institution established under the Maldives Financial Securities Act.

"Basic Pension for the Elderly of the Maldives" refers to the pension payable for life to all Maldivian citizens of pension age residing in the Maldives after the commencement of this Act.

"Pension Age" refers to 65 years.

"State Employees" refers to every employee paid from the state budget.

"Recognition Bonds" refers to bonds issued by the government to value the accrued pension rights of government employees.

"Disability Insurance" refers to insurance taken to protect the rights of an employee in case a situation arises that requires special assistance.

"Maldives Retirement Pension" refers to the pension provided under the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme under this Act, either in the form of an annuity or otherwise.

"Collateralization" refers to the money held in the Retirement Savings Account of a loan-taker in the Pension Fund, which can be taken back to secure the rights of the lender in case the loan is not repaid when taking a loan to buy a house.

"Other State Pensions" refers to all pensions provided from the state budget upon retirement based on the period of service or otherwise, under another law or regulation.

Date of Commencement

    This Act shall come into force from the date it is passed and ratified.
