Maldives Chartered Accountants Act Translated to English

This document provides a comprehensive translation of the "Dhivehi Raajjeyge Chartered Accountantunge Ganoonu," the Maldives Chartered Accountants Act. The law was enacted to regulate and advance the accountancy profession in the Maldives in line with international standards.[1] It led to the establishment of the "Institute of Chartered Accountants of the Maldives" (CA Maldives) as an independent legal entity.[2][3]
Chapter One: Introduction

1. Introduction and Name

(a) This is the law concerning the regulation of the accountancy profession in the Maldives in accordance with international principles and standards, the establishment and promotion of the accountancy profession in the Maldives, and the formation of a legal entity named the "Institute of Chartered Accountants of the Maldives" to define the classes of its members, the qualifications for each class, the code of conduct and standards to which members must adhere, and other related matters.

(b) This law shall be cited as the "Maldives Chartered Accountants Act."

2. Purpose

The objectives of this law are to:

(a) Establish a separate legal entity to regulate matters related to the profession by setting out the relevant principles for the purpose of promoting the accountancy profession in the Maldives and establishing and developing a profession for accountants.

(b) Ensure that persons working in the accountancy profession in the Maldives are familiar with international principles and standards and have received education and training in the field.[1]

(c) Ensure that persons working in the accountancy profession are competent and work with a high level of integrity and responsibility.[4]

(d) Determine the financial accounting and auditing standards and other applicable principles in the field for the private sector.[4]

(e) Provide technical assistance to the bodies entrusted with the legal responsibility of determining the financial accounting standards to be used in the public sector.
Chapter Two: Institute of Chartered Accountants of the Maldives

3. Establishment of the Institute

Upon the commencement of this Act, the "Institute of Chartered Accountants of the Maldives" is hereby established as an autonomous, independent, and sovereign legal entity with the power to conduct its affairs, to sue and be sued in its own name, to conduct transactions in its own name, and having a separate seal, to perform the responsibilities entrusted to it by this Act.[2][3]

4. Seal

The Institute shall have a seal. This seal shall be used under the supervision of the Council in accordance with the regulations made by it under this Act.

5. Objectives of the Institute

The main objectives of the Institute are as follows:

(a) To regulate and promote the accountancy profession in the Maldives.[4]

(b) To facilitate the provision of necessary education, training, and resources for the members of the Institute.[4]

(c) To work towards making persons working in the accountancy profession in the private and public sectors individuals who have received professional education and training in the field of accountancy.[4]

(d) To facilitate the maintenance of the independence of persons working in the accountancy profession in the private sector.[4]

(e) To determine the professional standards and principles to be adhered to by persons registered with the Institute and to monitor their compliance with such standards and principles.[4]

(f) To undertake any other activities necessary for the promotion and development of the accountancy profession in the Maldives.

6. Powers of the Institute

To achieve the objectives stated in Article 5 of this Act, the Institute shall have the following responsibilities and powers:

(a) To register the persons specified in Article 7 of this Act and to provide the services that should be provided by a professional institute of the accountancy profession.

(b) To protect the interests of the members and to seek opportunities for the members of the Institute to work in the professional field in the Maldives and abroad.[2]

(c) To provide knowledge of financial accounting, management accounting, auditing, and assurance.[2]

(d) To determine the curriculum for the Institute's financial accounting programs, management accounting programs, professional programs, and accounting technician programs, to grant permission to educational institutions in the Maldives to conduct such programs, and to conduct such programs itself.[4]

(e) To determine and enforce the financial accounting standards and auditing standards that are mandatory for the private sector.[4]

(f) To monitor compliance with the financial accounting standards, auditing standards, and ethical standards and principles related to accounting in the private sector and to take action against those who violate such standards and principles.

(g) To undertake any other matters necessary to achieve the responsibilities entrusted to the Institute in this Act.
Chapter Three: Members of the Institute and Other Persons Registered with the Institute

7. Persons who can be registered with the Institute

The following persons may be registered with the Institute:[4]

(a) Members of the Institute;

(b) Affiliates;[4]

(c) Students;[4] and

(d) Accountants in Business.[4]

8. Members of the Institute

(a) Only Associate Members and Fellow Members may be registered as members of the Institute.

(b) To be registered as a member of the Institute as stated in subsection (a) of this Article, one must be a "Member in Good Standing" of a professional accountancy organization that is a member of the International Federation of Accountants.[5]

9. Associate Members

(a) Associate Members of the Institute are the associate members of a professional organization that is a member of the International Federation of Accountants.

(b) All members registered with the Institute as Associate Members shall have the right to use the three letters "ACA" after their name to symbolize that they are Associate Members of the Institute.

10. Fellow Members

(a) At the time of commencement of this Act, persons who have fulfilled the requirements to be an Associate Member and have worked as an accountant for at least 5 (five) years shall be registered as Fellow Members in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

(b) If a person registered with the Institute as an Associate Member has worked in practice, or in the commerce industry, or as a lecturer at a higher education institution, or as an Accountant in Business for at least 5 (five) years, that person shall be registered as a Fellow Member of the Institute in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.[5]

(c) Persons registered as Fellow Members of the Institute under this Act shall have the right to use the three letters "FCA" after their name to symbolize that they are Fellow Members of the Institute.

11. Other Persons Registered with the Institute

(a) The Council shall make arrangements for the registration of persons working in the Maldives as "Accountants in Business" with the Institute, without them being members of the Institute.

(b) The registration of persons working in the Maldives as Accountants in Business with the Institute is the responsibility of their employer.

(c) It is the responsibility of the employer to ensure that persons working as Accountants in Business in the Maldives complete the CPD required to be completed once a year in accordance with the regulations prescribed by the Institute.

(d) After the expiration of 18 (eighteen) months from the date of commencement of this Act, no person shall work as an Accountant in Business in the Maldives without being registered with the Institute.

(e) If any person acts in contravention of subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this Article, the Council shall have the power to, after giving advice to rectify the matter, impose a fine of between MVR 1,000 (one thousand) and MVR 15,000 (fifteen thousand) if the matter is not rectified, in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

(f) The Council shall make arrangements for the registration of persons participating in and studying in a training program of a professional accountancy organization that is a member of the International Federation of Accountants as "Students" with the Institute, without them being members of the Institute.

(g) The Council shall make arrangements for the registration of persons who have participated in and passed a training program of a professional accountancy organization that is a member of the International Federation of Accountants, or who have participated in and passed a training program approved by the Institute, as "Affiliates" with the Institute.

12. Registration

(a) The Institute shall make arrangements for the registration of the persons specified in Article 7 of this Act with the Institute within 1 (one) year from the date of commencement of this Act, in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

(b) The Institute shall maintain a register of persons registered as members of the Institute and other persons registered with the Institute, and this register shall contain the information prescribed in the regulations made under this Act.

13. Conditions for Membership

In addition to the other conditions specified in this Act, a person may be registered as a member of the Institute if the following conditions are met:

(a) Be at least 18 (eighteen) years of age;

(b) Be of sound mind;

(c) Not be an undischarged bankrupt;

(d) If the person has a proven debt, be a person who is repaying the debt in accordance with the judgment; and

(e) If the person has been convicted of a criminal offense, 2 (two) years have passed since the completion of the sentence.

14. Removal of Name from the Register

(a) In the following circumstances, the Institute shall have the power to remove a person included in the register of the Institute and to strike off his name from the register in accordance with the regulations made under this Act:

(1) The death of the registered person; or

(2) Upon the request of the person to have their name removed from the register;

(3) Failure to pay the fees prescribed for registration with the Institute or for specific services provided by the Institute in accordance with the prescribed procedures;

(4) The loss of a condition specified in this Act for that person; and

(5) Violation of the professional and ethical standards specified in this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

(b) The procedures for re-instating a person whose name has been removed from the register under this Article shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.
Chapter Four: Practicing Certificate

15. Practicing Certificate

(a) Upon the commencement of this Act, the Institute shall have the sole authority to issue licenses to, classify, and register all persons who provide auditing and assurance services in the Maldives. Upon the commencement of this Act, the work previously carried out by government institutions in issuing licenses for and classifying statutory auditing and assurance services in the Maldives is transferred to the Institute.[3][5]

(b) Within 3 (three) months from the date of commencement of this Act, the Institute shall make arrangements for the issuance of licenses required for providing statutory auditing and assurance services in the Maldives.[4]

(c) After the Council begins issuing practicing certificates under this Act, no person shall provide statutory auditing and assurance services in the Maldives without obtaining such a certificate.[4]

(d) Persons who provide statutory auditing and assurance services under this Act shall be called "Licensed Auditors".[3]

(e) After the commencement of this Act, until the date on which practicing certificates are issued under this Act, a person who has a license issued by a government institution to provide statutory auditing and assurance services shall have the right to work under that license.[4]

(f) On the date of expiration of 6 (six) months from the date of commencement of this Act, the licenses for providing statutory auditing and assurance services issued by government institutions shall become void.
Chapter Five: The Council of the Institute

16. The Council of the Institute

(a) The affairs of the Institute shall be planned and managed by the Council of the Institute. The Council shall consist of the following 9 (nine) members:[3]

(1) 1 (one) member elected as the President of the Council from among the members of the Institute;[3]

(2) 1 (one) member elected as the Vice President of the Council from among the members of the Institute;[3]

(3) 4 (four) members elected as members of the Council from among the members of the Institute;[3]

(4) The Auditor General;[3]

(5) The Commissioner General of Taxation;[3]

(6) The Financial Controller of the State.[3]

(b) If an elected position on the Council becomes vacant for any reason during the term of the Council, an election shall be held within a maximum of 60 (sixty) days of the position becoming vacant to elect a member from among the members of the Council to the vacant position. The term of a position so elected shall be until the end of the current term of the Council.

17. Qualifications of Council Members

Members elected to the Council must meet the following qualifications:

(a) Be a citizen of the Maldives;[3] and

(b) Be a Fellow Member of the Institute.[3]

18. Election of the Council

(a) The members specified in sub-paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of paragraph (a) of Article 16 of this Act from among the members of the Council shall be elected by a secret ballot taken among the members of the Institute.

(b) The first election to elect the 6 (six) members to be elected to the Council of the Institute under this Act shall be held 60 (sixty) days before the expiration of the term of the transitional Council specified in Article 37 of this Act.

(c) Elections to elect members to the Council of the Institute shall be held by the Council in accordance with the election regulations determined and announced by the Council.

(d) The Council election shall be held 60 (sixty) days before the expiration of the term of the members of the Council elected to the Council of the Institute under this Act.

(e) Only those who are members of the Institute 90 (ninety) days before the expiration of the term of the transitional Council specified in Article 37 of this Act shall be eligible to vote in the election referred to in subsection (a) of this Article.

19. Resignation and Removal of Council Members

(a) If any member of the Council wishes to resign from his position, he shall be deemed to have vacated his position upon notifying the President of the Council in writing.

(b) If the President of the Council wishes to resign from his position, he shall be deemed to have vacated his position upon notifying the Council in writing.

(c) Members elected to the Council shall be deemed to have vacated their membership of the Council in the following circumstances:

(1) Death or occurrence of a condition that incapacitates the member from performing the responsibilities of the position;

(2) Resignation;

(3) Removal from the membership of the Institute in accordance with this Act;

(4) The loss of a necessary qualification for a member of the Institute as required by this Act;

(5) A member's failure to attend 3 (three) consecutive meetings of the Council without a valid excuse.

20. Term of the Council

(a) The term of the Council shall be 3 (three) years from the date of election of the members to the Council.[3]

(b) If a position of a member of the Council becomes vacant during the term of the current Council, an election to fill that position shall be held if the remaining term is longer than 6 (six) months. If a position of a member of the Council becomes vacant when the term of the Council is due to expire in 6 (six) months, the Council shall appoint a member to that position from among the members of the Institute.

(c) The term of office of a member elected or appointed to the Council to fill a vacancy in the Council during the term of the Council shall be the remainder of the term of the Council from the date on which such member is elected or appointed to the Council.

(d) No person who has completed 2 (two) consecutive terms as a member of the Council shall be eligible to contest the immediately following Council election.

21. Council Meetings, Quorum, and Voting

(a) The quorum for a meeting of the Council shall be more than half of the members of the Council. Any matter shall be decided by the Council by a majority of the members present and voting at the meeting.

(b) A meeting of the Council shall be held at least once a month from the date of commencement of this Act.

22. General Powers and Responsibilities of the Council

The management and administration of the Institute is the responsibility of the Council. In addition, the powers and responsibilities of the Council include the following:

(a) To determine the organizations recognized by the Institute from among the professional accountancy organizations that are members of the International Federation of Accountants for the purpose of becoming a member of the Institute, to determine the fields of study in which education must be obtained, to grant permission for those fields, and to make arrangements for holding relevant examinations;

(b) To determine the classes of persons included in the register of the Institute as specified in this Act, and to include such persons in the register of the Institute and to maintain that register;

(c) To supervise students and affiliates, to register persons who wish to be registered with the Institute as students and affiliates, and to determine the requirements to be fulfilled by such persons to become members of the Institute;

(d) To take action in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder against persons who are required to be registered with this Institute as specified in this Act, if they fail to register with this Institute;

(e) To determine the accounting and auditing standards for the private sector;[4]

(f) To prepare and publish the valuation principles to be used in the preparation of financial accounts and financial statements of private sector businesses;

(g) To establish the committees formed under this Act;

(h) To decide, with the advice of the Disciplinary Committee, on referring a matter concerning the conduct of a member to the relevant investigative body for further investigation;

(i) To do any other things necessary within the framework of this Act in relation to the performance of the Council's responsibilities or in relation to the Council's powers or in relation to the Council's responsibilities and duties, or in relation to the administration of the Council;

(j) To provide advice, if requested by the committees established by the Council under this Act, on a related matter;

(k) To provide technical assistance to the bodies entrusted with the legal responsibility of determining the financial accounting standards to be used in the public sector;

(l) To determine the standards to be achieved to maintain the quality of work of the members of the Institute and the procedures for evaluating and assessing the quality of members; and

(m) To hold the annual general meeting of the Institute in the manner prescribed in the regulations made under this Act.

23. Appointment of the CEO of the Institute and Establishment of Resources

In order to fully perform the responsibilities of the Council, the Council shall do the following 90 (ninety) days before the expiration of the term of the transitional Council, in accordance with the regulations made under this Act:

(a) Appoint a Chief Executive Officer (CEO) to perform the day-to-day responsibilities;[3]

(b) To acquire the necessary staff and establish the necessary resources for the administration of the Institute.

24. Financial Matters

(a) The government shall provide the funds necessary for the Institute to fully perform its responsibilities, in an amount agreed upon between the government and the Institute, to the Institute each year. This funding will be provided until the end of the term of the transitional Council.

(b) All monies received by the Institute as income shall be deposited into a bank account opened in the name of the Institute. All expenses of the Institute shall be managed in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

(c) The Council shall have the power to open a bank account in the name of the Institute to deposit the money received by the Institute in a manner that does not hinder the administration of the Institute, and to invest the money received.

(d) The financial accounts of the Institute shall be maintained regularly by the Council in a manner that clearly shows the capital expenditure and recurrent expenditure separately.

(e) Before the beginning of each financial year, the Council shall approve a budget prepared in a manner that clearly shows the income and expenditure for that year.

(f) After preparing the annual financial statement of the Institute for each year, it shall be audited under the supervision of a chartered accountant appointed by the Council in accordance with the regulations made under this Act, and that statement shall be approved by the Council.

(g) The person auditing the annual financial statement of the Institute referred to in subsection (f) of this Article shall not be a member of the Council or a member of a committee or a firm to which that member belongs.

(h) The audit report and the report on the administration of the Institute for each year, approved by the Council, shall be published on the Council's website before the 30th (thirtieth) day of June of the following year. The Institute shall also make arrangements to make copies of these reports available to the members of the Institute and to the persons registered with the Institute.

(i) The audit report of the Council and the report on the administration of the Institute referred to in subsection (h) of this Article shall be sent to the People's Majlis.

(j) The Institute may generate income through the following means:

(1) Subscriptions paid by members to the Institute;

(2) Money received from licenses issued by the Institute and fines imposed by the Institute;

(3) Aid and sponsorships received from within the Maldives and from abroad in accordance with the laws and regulations of the Maldives;

(4) Fees collected for various courses conducted by the Institute; and

(5) Money received from activities conducted to generate income as approved by the Council of the Institute.

(k) The Institute has the authority to obtain funds from financial institutions.

(l) The Institute has the power to take necessary actions to protect the capital and property of the Institute.

(m) An attendance allowance shall be arranged for the members of the Council for each meeting of the Council. This allowance shall be approved with the state budget for each year.
Chapter Six: Committees

25. Committees of the Council

(a) The Council shall establish the following committees to carry out the responsibilities assigned by the Council:[4]

(1) Management and Finance Committee;

(2) Academic Committee;

(3) Disciplinary Committee;

(4) Appeals Committee;

(5) Technical and Standards Committee; and

(6) Admissions and Licensing Committee.

(b) Within 3 (three) months from the date of election of members to the Council, the Council shall establish all the committees specified in this Act.

(c) The Council has the power to delegate its responsibilities or a part of its responsibilities to the committees established under this Article. However, the work done by the committees shall be reviewed by the Council in a manner determined by the Council.

(d) The Council has the power to establish other committees in addition to the committees specified in this Article to achieve the objectives of this Act. The Council also has the authority to appoint members to such committees in accordance with a procedure determined by the Council.

(e) Except for the CEO of the Institute, the term of office of the other members of the various committees established by the Council shall be from the date of appointment of the members to the committee by the Council until the end of the term of the Council. Accordingly, if a position of a member of a committee becomes vacant during the current term of the Council, the term of office of the members appointed by the Council to the committee shall be the remainder of the term of the Council.

(f) The committees shall perform the responsibilities determined by the Council to be performed by the committees.

(g) The powers and responsibilities of the committees specified in this Article, their objectives, the manner in which the committee will be constituted, and the procedures for its administration shall be determined and specified in the regulations made under this Act.

26. Management and Finance Committee

The Council shall establish a Management and Finance Committee to provide advice and guidance to the Council on matters relating to the administration of the Institute and financial matters.

27. Academic Committee

The Council shall establish an Academic Committee for the purpose of granting permission for various courses approved by the Institute, for conducting various courses conducted by the Institute, and for issuing academic certificates issued by the Institute.

28. Disciplinary Committee

(a) There shall be a Disciplinary Committee established to, after investigating a complaint submitted by a member stating that a member has violated this Act, the regulations made under this Act, and the Code of Conduct, or a matter that the Institute has decided to investigate on its own initiative, propose to the Council the measures to be taken against the members.

(b) The Disciplinary Committee shall have the power to summon members and other relevant persons, to question them, and to investigate such matters in relation to matters of violation of the Code of Conduct submitted to the Disciplinary Committee, and matters of violation of accounting and auditing standards and other relevant standards and the regulations made under this Act, and to propose to the Council to take the following actions on behalf of the Council:

(1) To give advice or a warning;

(2) To expel the member from the membership of the Institute, or to suspend the member from membership for a specific period;

(3) To prohibit the member from working in the accountancy profession for a specific period;

(4) To order the completion of a program or programs determined by the Council;

(5) If it is proven to the Council that a member has violated the Code of Conduct or committed an offense specified in Article 32 of this Act, to impose a fine on such persons of an amount between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand), taking into account the gravity of the matter;

(6) If the Committee believes that an act committed by a member falls within the jurisdiction of another investigative body, to decide on referring such matters to other investigative bodies.

29. Appeals Committee

There shall be an Appeals Committee established for members to appeal if they are dissatisfied with a decision made by the Council of the Institute or a committee.

30. Admissions and Licensing Committee

The Council shall establish an Admissions and Licensing Committee to determine the procedures and conditions to be followed for registration as a member of the Institute, to plan and manage all matters related to the issuance of audit licenses to conduct statutory audits in the Maldives, and to carry out other matters related to admissions and licensing.

31. Technical and Standards Committee

There shall be a Technical and Standards Committee established to resolve issues that arise in relation to technical matters in the implementation of this Act, and to determine, implement, and maintain the accounting and auditing standards for the private sector.
Chapter Seven: Prohibited Acts

32. Misuse of the Institute's Name and Issuance of Chartered Accountancy Certificates

Unless otherwise stated in this Act, it is prohibited for any person to do any of the following:

(a) Use the name and seal of the Institute or anything similar to it to represent the Institute; or

(b) In issuing a professional certificate, or in issuing any certificate, for any person other than the Institute to do anything to represent the Institute or to indicate that it is a body that regulates chartered accountants.

33. Signing of Documents by Persons Other Than Authorized Persons

No person other than a member of the Institute shall sign a document that is required to be signed in the capacity of a chartered accountant.

34. Investigation of Criminal Matters and Further Action

If any person commits an act in contravention of Articles 32 and 33 of this Act, the Council shall refer the criminal offense involved in that act to the relevant institution for investigation. The Council shall also have the power to take action against the person who has committed such an act in accordance with this Act.

35. Providers of Audit and Assurance Services

(a) A place providing audit and assurance services or a firm of a chartered accountant or a branch of a firm may be established in the Maldives in the manner prescribed and specified in the regulations made under this Act.

(b) If an individual providing audit and assurance services or a member of the Institute working for a firm providing audit and assurance services violates this Act, the Council shall have the power to take action against that member.

(c) If a firm providing audit and assurance services violates this Act, the Council shall have the power to take action against that firm.

36. Protection for Acts Done in Good Faith

If any notice or instruction given under this Act, or a regulation made under this Act, or this Act itself, has been given in good faith by the Council or by the staff of the Institute or by the Disciplinary Committee and other committees established by the Council, no civil or criminal or any other action shall be brought against such person in relation to that matter.
Chapter Eight: Transitional Provisions

37. Transitional Council of the Institute

(a) For the first 4 (four) years from the date of publication of this Act in the Government Gazette, the Institute shall be administered by a transitional Council composed of the following persons:[3]

(1) The Auditor General;[3]

(2) The Financial Controller of the State;[3]

(3) The Commissioner General of Taxation;[3]

(4) 2 (two) members appointed by the Auditor General from the Auditor General's Office;[3]

(5) 4 (four) members appointed by the Auditor General from among the persons working in the private sector in the accountancy profession.[3]

(b) The members of the transitional Council are not required to fulfill the conditions specified in Article 17 of this Act.

(c) The President of the transitional Council specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be the Auditor General.[3]

(d) The Vice President of the transitional Council specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be a member of the Council elected by a secret ballot of the members of the transitional Council.

(e) The transitional Council specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be established within 21 (twenty-one) days of the commencement of this Act.

(f) During the term of the transitional Council specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the Council shall have the power to remove the persons appointed to the Council by the Auditor General from the membership of the Council with a valid excuse. A member shall be removed in accordance with the procedures prescribed by the Council. The Auditor General shall appoint members to such a position within 21 (twenty-one) days of a position of a member of the transitional Council becoming vacant in this manner.
Chapter Nine: Miscellaneous

38. Making of Regulations

(a) The Council shall have the power to make the following regulations and principles for the purpose of implementing this Act. In addition to the matters specified in this Article, the Council shall have the power to make other regulations necessary for the implementation of the matters specified in this Act.

(1) Regulations concerning the election of members to the Council and the removal of members from office as specified in this Act;

(2) Regulations specifying the powers of the Council and the various committees established by the Council in conducting various investigations under this Act;

(3) Regulations regarding the determination of the educational qualifications, training, and experience required to become a member of the Institute, the determination of the standard of examinations approved by the Institute, the determination of the procedures for conducting examinations by the Institute, and the manner in which the Institute will act in accepting certificates obtained from outside the Maldives;

(4) Regulations to determine the procedures and conditions to be followed for registration as a member of the Institute, and regulations specifying the fees to be paid to become a member of the Institute and to be included in the classes of members;

(5) Regulations specifying the persons who must be registered with the Institute as "Accountants in Business" without being a member of the Institute, their classes, ethical standards, and CPD;

(6) Regulations regarding the determination of the procedures for the admission of students to the Institute, and regulations specifying the procedures to be followed by persons admitted as students;

(7) Regulations concerning the maintenance and supervision of the ethical standards of the members of the Institute;

(8) Regulations specifying the auditing standards to be followed in conducting various statutory audits in the private sector in the Maldives;

(9) Regulations specifying the procedures for issuing and revoking licenses to work as licensed auditors in the Maldives, and for classifying the providers of audit and assurance services;

(10) Regulations concerning the term, powers, responsibilities of the office of the CEO of the Institute, and the employment matters of other staff of the office;

(11) Regulations specifying the procedures for registering and operating individuals and firms providing audit and assurance services; and

(12) Regulations to be made in connection with other matters for which regulations must be made under this Act.

(b) All regulations made under this Act shall come into force from the date of their approval by the Council and their publication in the Government Gazette.

(c) All regulations required to be made under this Act shall be made and implemented by the Council.

(d) Except for the regulations for which a specific period for making them is prescribed in another article of this Act, the other regulations specified in this Article shall be made and published for public information 90 (ninety) days before the end of the transitional period.

39. Commencement of the Act

This Act shall come into force on the date of its passing, ratification, and publication in the Government Gazette.

40. Precedence of this Act

Upon the commencement of this Act, if a matter required by this Act is stipulated in another law, this Act shall take precedence.

41. Definitions

Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms and phrases shall have the meanings given below:

(a) "Institute" means the Institute of Chartered Accountants of the Maldives established under this Act to implement the matters specified in this Act.

(b) "Chartered Accountant" means a person who has obtained membership of the Institute.

(c) "Associate Member" means a person registered with the Institute as an Associate Member.

(d) "Fellow" means a person registered with the Institute as a Fellow Member.

(e) "Students" means persons who are participating in and completing a professional accountancy course of a professional accountancy organization that is a member of the International Federation of Accountants or a course approved for conduct by the Institute.

(f) "Affiliates" means persons who have passed the examinations of a professional accountancy qualification of a professional accountancy organization that is a member of the International Federation of Accountants or who have passed the examinations of a professional course approved for conduct by the Institute, but who have not obtained membership of that organization.

(g) "Accountants in Business" means persons who prepare the financial accounts and financial statements of private sector businesses in the Maldives and who perform other financial work.

(h) "Council" means the Council of the Institute.

(i) "Member of the Council" means the members of the Council, including the President and the Vice President of the Council.

(j) "Register" means the register required to be maintained by the Institute under this Act.

(k) "To practice" means to provide audit and assurance services.

(l) "International Federation of Accountants" means the main body representing professional accountants around the world. This body is an organization in which many professional accountancy organizations from around the world are registered as members.

(m) "Assurance service" means the review of financial accounts, financial statements, and financial transactions to give an independent opinion on their accuracy to those who make financial decisions, and the compilation and preparation of financial accounts.

(n) "Private Sector" means the businesses of sole proprietors, all companies registered under Law No. 10/96 (Maldives Companies Act), all businesses registered under other laws, and non-profit making organizations.

(o) "Financial Controller" means a person appointed under Law No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act).

(p) "Member in Good Standing" means a person who has been confirmed by a professional accountancy organization that is a member of the International Federation of Accountants to be acting in accordance with the standards and ethical standards of that organization.

(q) "Commerce Industry" means the industry of business.

(r) "Continuing Professional Development (CPD)" means the learning activities carried out by chartered accountants and other persons working in the field of accountancy to further develop and update their skills.

(s) "Firm" means businesses that provide accountancy, audit, and other related services in that field.
