Maldives Prisons and Parole Act**

**Chapter One**
**Preliminary Articles**

**Introduction and Name**

1. 

(a) This Act is to establish the procedures for the enforcement of judgments made by the Sharia Courts, to establish the procedures for the administration of prisons in the Maldives, to establish and maintain the standards that must be in prisons, to establish the procedures for the detention of persons in prison, for detainees on remand, persons who must be detained under a court order, and if any person must be detained under Act No. 1/2007 (Maldives Immigration Act), to establish the procedures and places for detaining such persons, to establish how to act in such places and prisons, to specify how inmates should behave in prison, the benefits and rights of inmates, to detail the powers, rights, and authority of the parties managing the prison, to conduct rehabilitation programs to keep inmates away from committing crimes and to bring them back to society as good individuals, and to establish the procedures for granting parole.

(b) For the purpose of this Act, the President of the Republic shall establish an institution named "Maldives Correctional Service" to oversee all matters relating to prisons and parole. Maldives Correctional Service is a civil service not included in the Maldivian Civil Service, and is a civil service exempted from Chapter 4 of Act No. 2/2008 (Employment Act). "Maldives Correctional Service" is an institution that includes uniformed officers.

(c) This Act shall be cited as the "Maldives Prisons and Parole Act".

**Purpose**

2. The purpose of this Act is to achieve the following main objectives.

(a) To make the prison system of the Maldives a system that operates on a sound basis;

(b) To establish a separate service under the name of "Maldives Correctional Service" and to determine the procedures for the administration of that service;

(c) To establish a safe and secure environment for inmates in prison;

(d) To provide training to inmates in various fields and to teach them various skills;

(e) To encourage inmates to stay away from committing crimes and to bring them back to society as good individuals;

(f) To establish procedures for enforcing judgments in accordance with the judgment made by the court;

(g) To determine the places and procedures for detaining persons during the investigation stage and the trial stage by the investigating authorities empowered by an Act.

**Chapter Two**
**Determining Prisons and Other Places Where Persons Must Be Detained**

**Designation as a Prison**

3. 

(a) If a place prepared for detaining persons in accordance with this Act meets the conditions determined by the Inspector of Correctional Service for a prison, the Minister shall have the discretion to designate that place as a prison. Similarly, the Minister shall have the discretion to determine that a place designated as a prison is not a prison.

(b) The Minister shall have the power to grant a temporary permit for a period not exceeding 1 (one) year from the date of commencement of this Act to use the places being used as prisons at the time of commencement of this Act as prisons until they are designated as prisons in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article.

(c) The Minister shall grant a temporary permit for use as a prison under subsection (b) of this Article, after a schedule for fulfilling the conditions determined by the Inspector of Correctional Service for a prison is formulated, and after making it mandatory to fulfill those conditions in accordance with that schedule. The said schedule shall be formulated in such a way that all matters, except for major changes to the building and major expenses not included in the budget, are completed within 6 (six) months.

(d) A person shall be detained for a period longer than 24 (twenty-four) hours under a court order in a place designated as a prison classified in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article, or in a place that has been granted a temporary permit to be used as a prison in accordance with subsection (b) of this Article.

(e) Within 6 (six) months of the commencement of this Act, the Minister shall establish special centers for the detention of women, children, and persons with special needs among those arrested on suspicion of a crime and those detained for the purpose of enforcing a sentence, in accordance with the conditions determined by the Inspector of Correctional Service.

**Classification of Prisons**

4. 

(a) Prisoners and detainees of different categories shall be detained and maintained in a prison designated for that category, as follows.

(1) Persons detained for investigation in a custodial jail;

(2) Persons detained under a court order after the investigation is completed and before the trial begins, or after the trial has begun and before a judgment is rendered, in a remand jail;

(3) Persons serving a judicial sentence in a general prison.

(b) When determining prisons in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article, all places where persons arrested on suspicion of a crime, persons detained for the purpose of enforcing a sentence, and persons detained for treatment during the term of their sentence are detained and maintained, shall have separate places designated for the detention of women, children, and persons with special needs.

(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other article of this Act, all regulations determining how to provide medical treatment and other matters to all persons detained as detainees in a custodial jail and how to treat them during the investigation stage shall be formulated by the Minister in accordance with the standards determined by the investigative authorities and with the advice of the Commissioner.

**Other Places Where Persons Must Be Detained**

5. 

(a) In a center or rehabilitation center where persons who need to be rehabilitated through treatment during the term of their sentence must be detained for treatment;

(b) In a detention center for persons who must be deported from the Maldives for violating the Maldives Immigration Act;

**Chapter Three**
**Prison Administration and Inspection**

**The Body to Maintain Prisons**

6. 

(a) General prisons and remand jails shall be administered and maintained by the Maldives Correctional Service.

(b) Custodial jails shall be administered and maintained by the Maldives Police Service, in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act. And notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other article of this Act, in the administration and maintenance of custodial jails, it shall be done in accordance with the advice of the Commissioner of Police.

**Appointment of Director of Prisons for Prisons**

7. 

(a) In every prison, there shall be a Director of Prisons who has the authority and power to do all things necessary in that prison to achieve the objectives of this Act.

(b) The responsibilities of the Director of Prisons are to administer and maintain the following matters related to the prisons under the supervision of a Director of Prisons, as determined by the Commissioner of Prisons.

(1) To oversee all matters of prison administration;

(2) To oversee the security matters of the prison;

(3) To oversee the welfare of the inmates; and

(4) To maintain the safety and interests of the prison.

(c) 

(1) The Director of Prisons appointed to general prisons and remand jails shall perform his duties in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act and with the advice and consultation of the Commissioner.

(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other article of this Act, the Director of Prisons appointed to custodial jails shall perform his duties in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act and with the advice and consultation of the Commissioner of Police.

(d) 

(1) The Director of Prisons for general prisons and remand jails shall be appointed by the Commissioner of Prisons with the advice of the Minister.

(2) The Director of Prisons for custodial jails shall be appointed by the Commissioner of Police. An officer of the Maldives Police Service shall be appointed to this position.

(e) In every prison, the Director of Prisons shall have the power to issue prison orders necessary for the full enforcement of this Act and the regulations made under this Act, in accordance with this Act and with the advice of the Commissioner.

**Prison Orders**

8. 

(a) A prison order shall come into effect from the date of its publication in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

(b) Within 3 (three) months of the commencement of this Act, prison orders concerning the matters specified in Schedule 3 of this Act shall be issued and gazetted.

**Inspector of Correctional Service**

9. 

(a) The Minister shall appoint a person by the name of Inspector of Correctional Service to inspect and examine the places designated as prisons under this Act, to check whether things are being conducted in those places in accordance with the regulations made under Article 70 of this Act, and to report to the Minister.

(b) The Minister shall provide the staff and resources necessary for the Inspector to perform his duties.

**Responsibilities of the Inspector of Correctional Service**

10. The responsibilities of the Inspector of Correctional Service are stated below.

(a) To check whether the prisons are constructed in accordance with the regulations;

(b) To check whether inmates and detainees are provided with the minimum basic services that must be provided to them in accordance with the regulations;

(c) To check whether inmates and detainees in prisons are treated in accordance with the procedures specified in the regulations for their treatment;

(d) To check whether the standards of food and medical care provided to persons in prison are in accordance with the regulations;

(e) To visit prisons in accordance with the established schedule and to inspect and examine the prisons;

(f) To listen to complaints of torture of persons in a prison independently, to investigate and to submit a report to the Minister;

(g) If a person dies in a prison or if a person is seriously injured, to investigate the matter and submit a report to the Minister.

(h) To inspect and report on the places where persons under the custody of a state institution or authority are held, and the manner in which they are treated. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other article of this Act, a report in relation to the responsibility stated under this paragraph shall be submitted to the relevant institution.

**Reporting**

11. In order to perform the responsibilities stated in Article 10 of this Act, the Inspector of Correctional Service shall submit a report to the Minister in accordance with the regulations made under this Act in relation to each of those matters.

**Inspection by an Independent Commission**

12. The relevant commissions established in the Maldives under the Constitution have the power to investigate whether the manner in which persons are detained in the prisons of the Maldives, the manner in which they are treated, and the services provided to them meet the standards of human rights, and to investigate such matters due to a sudden incident, or to inspect the prisons. Such commissions, after inspecting and examining the prisons, have the power to submit a report prepared in relation to the matter to the President of the Republic, the People's Majlis, and the Prosecutor General.

**Inspection by International Organizations**

13. An international organization of which the Maldives is a party to and has ratified, or under an agreement made with an international organization of which the Maldives is a member, has the permission to inspect the prisons of the Maldives. Such parties, in inspecting the prison, shall act in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

**Inspection of Prisons by Committees of the People's Majlis**

14. The standing committees and ad hoc committees determined by the People's Majlis to visit the prison and look into the affairs of the prison may, whenever they wish, visit the prisons and the members of the standing committees and ad hoc committees of the Majlis may enter and inspect all parts of the prison. The committee of the People's Majlis has the power to order the correction of matters noted in this way.

**Legal Power of Those Who Inspect Prisons**

15. The Inspector who visits the prison to inspect it with the authority under this Act, the persons who go on his behalf, the independent commissions mentioned in Article 12 of this Act, the delegations sent by an international organization mentioned in Article 13 of this Act, and the committees of the People's Majlis mentioned in Article 14 of this Act are given the power by this Act to do the following things without prejudice to the safety and security of the prison.

(a) To enter, inspect, and examine all parts of the prison after informing the Director of Prisons;

(b) To meet with persons in prison in private or in any other way and to obtain information;

(c) To test or take samples of the food and water given to inmates and detainees in prison to check their quality;

(d) To summon prison staff and to meet with them in private or in any other way and to obtain information;

(e) To inspect and make copies of all records and documents of the prison;

(f) To obtain other information that needs to be obtained in relation to the matter;

(g) To obtain the recordings of all security cameras and sound recording devices installed in the prison.

**Code of Conduct for Inspectors**

16. No person visiting a prison with legal authority shall do any of the following.

(a) To do anything in the course of inspection that is contrary to the regulations of the prison;

(b) If a close relative of that person, or a person connected to the interests of that person, is in the prison, not to inform the person who sent him and the Director of Prisons of the prison;

(c) To bring in anything that is prohibited from being brought into the prison;

(d) To give anything to any inmate and to receive anything from an inmate;

(e) To record and publicize the photographs, images, and voices of inmates and detainees in prison except for an investigative purpose.

**Chapter Four**
**Maldives Correctional Service**

**Maldives Correctional Service**

17. 

(a) The responsibilities of maintaining the prisons of the Maldives in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act shall be borne by an institution established under the name of "Maldives Correctional Service" which includes uniformed officers.

(b) Maldives Correctional Service shall operate under the supervision of a Minister determined by the President of the Republic for that purpose.

**Commissioner of Prisons**

18. There shall be a Commissioner of Prisons and a Deputy Commissioner of Prisons to be responsible for organizing all matters and for the day-to-day administration as the most senior official of the Maldives Correctional Service. A Commissioner of Prisons and a Deputy Commissioner of Prisons shall be appointed by the President of the Republic.

**Job Structure**

19. The Maldives Correctional Service shall, with the advice of the Minister, determine an administrative structure that states the job classifications and responsibilities of the officers and other employees of the Maldives Correctional Service. The said structure shall state the qualifications for the positions of the Maldives Correctional Service and the number of employees that must be there for various matters. This structure shall be prepared in a manner that does not conflict with this Act. This structure shall be prepared and submitted to the relevant committee of the People's Majlis and approved by that committee within 3 (three) months of the passing of this Act.

**Employment and Dismissal**

20. 

(a) Officers and employees of the Maldives Correctional Service shall be employed by the Commissioner. And officers and employees of the Maldives Correctional Service shall be dismissed from employment and demoted by the Commissioner with the advice of the Disciplinary Board.

(b) In the employment and dismissal of officers and employees of the Maldives Correctional Service and in demotion, it shall be done in accordance with the employment regulations specific to the Maldives Correctional Service.

**Salaries and Other Benefits**

21. The salaries and other benefits of the officers and employees of the Maldives Correctional Service shall be determined by the Maldives Correctional Service in accordance with the regulations made under this Act. The advice of the Minister of Finance and Treasury shall be sought in determining salaries and financial benefits.

**Responsibilities of the Commissioner**

22. The duties and responsibilities of the Commissioner of Prisons are stated below.

(a) To oversee all matters of the prisons under the supervision of the Maldives Correctional Service;

(b) To maintain the safety and interests of the prisons under the supervision of the Maldives Correctional Service;

(c) To oversee all matters of the inmates under the supervision of the Maldives Correctional Service;

(d) To do all things necessary to bring back the persons detained under the supervision of the Maldives Correctional Service to society as good people;

(e) To oversee all matters of the officers and employees of the Maldives Correctional Service;

(f) To formulate a code of conduct for prison officers;

(g) To enforce the various judgments made by the Sharia Courts.

**Delegation of Commissioner's Responsibilities to Another Party**

23. Some of the responsibilities assigned to the Commissioner of Prisons under Article 22 of this Act may be delegated in writing to the Deputy Commissioner of Prisons or to a specific officer or officers to be determined.

**Commissioner's Accountability**

24. The Commissioner of Prisons shall be accountable to the Minister in the performance of his responsibilities.

**Responsibilities and Duties of Officers**

25. 

(a) Every officer of the Maldives Correctional Service shall perform the responsibilities assigned to him in accordance with this Act, the regulations made under this Act, and prison orders.

(b) It is the duty of every officer and employee of the Maldives Correctional Service to assist and cooperate with the Commissioner, the Deputy Commissioner of Prisons, and the Director of Prisons and to act in accordance with their instructions.

**Main Principles for Officers to Follow**

26. The officers and employees of the Maldives Correctional Service shall adhere to the following main principles in the performance of their official responsibilities.

(a) To maintain the inmates and detainees in the prison with safety, peace, and kindness;

(b) Not to commit inhumane or cruel acts against inmates and detainees;

(c) If information is received about a disturbance that is happening or is planned to happen in the prison, to inform the Director of Prisons of the matter without delay;

(d) To assist inmates and detainees in their rehabilitation and welfare matters;

(e) To assist in obtaining any health service required by inmates and detainees or any other such service arranged for them;

(f) Not to seek or accept any fee, reward, bribe, gift, or any other such thing or anything that could be considered as such; and

(g) Not to conduct any business or any such transaction related to it with or on behalf of inmates and detainees.

**Confidentiality of Officers**

27. The information known to the prison staff by virtue of their position shall be kept confidential. Such information shall not be disclosed to any party other than for an investigation conducted by a legally authorized institution or for the purpose of a trial or to a party to whom it must be disclosed for the performance of the employee's job.

**Powers of Officers**

28. The powers of the officers of the Maldives Correctional Service are as follows.

(a) To arrest and detain persons who must serve a sentence, in accordance with the regulations;

(b) To use force to the extent permitted by law and regulations and in a manner permitted by law and regulations to make inmates and detainees who disobey a valid order made by an officer in the course of performing his duties in accordance with the law, obedient;

(c) To use handcuffs, batons, pepper spray, tear gas, stunt grenades, and riot gear and other defensive equipment permitted by regulation and non-lethal weapons, in a manner not inconsistent with the regulations and prison orders made under this Act;

(d) To search and inspect the bodies of inmates and detainees, their belongings, and all persons entering and leaving the prison and the things they bring, in a manner not inconsistent with the regulations and prison orders made under this Act;

(e) To issue orders to inmates and detainees in accordance with this Act and the regulations and prison orders made under this Act for the purpose of maintaining the safety and security of the prison and overseeing the affairs of the prison.

**Rights of Officers**

29. Officers shall have the following rights.

(a) To receive compensation for any damage to his body or property in the course of performing his duties, and to receive medical treatment;

(b) Not to take disciplinary action against an officer in connection with a complaint made against him without giving him an opportunity to respond;

(c) The complainant shall not have a role in deciding on a complaint filed against an officer;

(d) Not to receive a disproportionately severe punishment for an offense committed by an officer;

(e) Not to be found guilty for disobeying an order that is contrary to law and regulations and not to take disciplinary action in connection with such a matter.

**Code of Conduct**

30. The Commissioner shall formulate a code of conduct for the officers of the Maldives Correctional Service and maintain that code of conduct among the officers.

**Searching and Inspecting Officers and Their Belongings**

31. For the security needs of the prison or for the purpose of enforcing the law and regulations, if the Director of Prisons sees fit, the prison officers or other employees and their belongings may be searched and inspected in accordance with the regulations.

**Disciplinary Offenses**

32. An officer or employee who commits any of the following acts shall be guilty of a disciplinary offense.

(a) Failure to be present at the place designated for duty at the time designated for duty without permission or without a valid excuse, or not being at that place during duty hours;

(b) Disobeying an order made in accordance with the law and regulations or failing to perform a duty assigned to him in accordance with the established procedure and expressing disobedience by word or deed;

(c) Knowing that an inmate or detainee or a person under sentence is committing an offense, and not informing the Director of Prisons or the person who should be informed;

(d) Using the property or money in the prison for personal matters;

(e) Negligence in the care of an object for which he is responsible among the property in the prison;

(f) Doing or participating in a matter or work that conflicts with the job he holds, or participating in an activity of a nature that hinders the performance of the work he does in his job;

(g) Taking a bribe or accepting a gift or other such things from a person with whom he has to deal in his job or from an inmate or from a person related to an inmate in a situation that can be considered a bribe;

(h) In contravention of this Act and the regulations made under this Act, to deliver anything to an inmate or from an inmate to another inmate, to bring it into or take it out of the prison, or to attempt to bring it into or take it out of the prison, or to allow it to be brought into or taken out of the prison, or to facilitate such an act;

(i) Giving false information to an officer or the Director of Prisons;

(j) Assisting in the escape of an inmate or causing an inmate to escape due to his negligence;

(k) Assaulting an inmate and touching the body of any inmate in a manner other than that specified in the regulations;

(l) Committing an inhumane or cruel act against any employee or inmate.

**Punishment for Disciplinary Offenses**

33. Notwithstanding the other articles of this Act, one or more of the following punishments may be imposed for disciplinary offenses committed by officers or employees.

(a) Counseling;

(b) Warning;

(c) Increasing duty for a period not exceeding 7 (seven) days;

(d) Demotion;

(e) Suspension;

(f) Ordering to pay compensation for damages;

(g) Dismissal from employment.

**Taking Action on a Disciplinary Offense**

34. 

(a) In a case where an officer or employee is deemed to have committed a disciplinary offense, he shall be given an opportunity to respond. And such a case shall be decided after considering the documents submitted by him and all the information available in that case.

(b) In a case where an officer or employee is deemed to have committed a disciplinary offense, the following information shall be communicated in writing to that officer or employee.

(1) What the offense is that the officer or employee is suspected of having committed;

(2) Information to be given by regulation in relation to the matter.

(c) If the officer or employee is not satisfied with the decision made by the Director of Prisons regarding a disciplinary offense, he may submit the matter to the Disciplinary Board mentioned in Article 45 of this Act within 14 (fourteen) days, requesting that the matter be investigated.

**How to Impose Punishment for Disciplinary Offenses**

35. 

(a) After considering the submissions made by the officer or employee suspected of committing a disciplinary offense in his defense and other information and statements related to the case, the Director of Prisons has the discretion to impose the punishments stated in subsections (a), (b), and (c) of Article 33 of this Act.

(b) The punishments stated in subsections (d) to (g) of Article 33 of this Act shall be imposed by the Commissioner with the advice of the Disciplinary Board.

(c) This Article does not prevent the imposition of more than one punishment at the same time in imposing the punishments stated in subsections (b) to (g) of Article 33 of this Act. However, in determining the punishment in this way, the procedure stated in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article shall also apply.

**Providing Training and Developing People**

36. The employees of the Maldives Correctional Service shall be provided with training in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

**Giving Promotions and Awards of Honor**

37. 

(a) The Minister shall determine the promotions and awards of honor for all employees of the Maldives Correctional Service in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

(b) The Minister shall form a committee of 7 (seven) members from among the officers of the Maldives Correctional Service to conduct and oversee all matters of giving promotions and awards of honor to the employees of the Maldives Correctional Service and to advise the Minister on those matters.

**Unauthorized Use of Uniform and Award of Honor**

38. If a person or persons do a thing mentioned in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article without obtaining permission from the parties who must give permission under this Act and the regulations made under this Act, that person or those persons shall be guilty of an offense under this Act.

(a) To produce, sell, use, or give to a person who does not have permission to use, a formal uniform or an award of honor authorized for use by prison officers.

(b) For a person or persons to produce or use a formal uniform or an award of honor authorized for use by prison officers or a copy of such a thing.

**Honorable Discharge from Employment and Resignation**

39. 

(a) Except for persons dismissed from the employment of the Maldives Correctional Service, every person who leaves the employment of the Maldives Correctional Service shall be determined to be a person who has left the employment with honor under the retirement regulations made under this Act.

(b) The following methods of retirement for an employee of the Maldives Correctional Service shall be included in the retirement regulations.

(1) Reaching the age determined for the rank.

(2) Being in the same position for a specified period of time.

(3) Not being in good health.

(4) On one's own request.

(c) Persons who leave the employment of the Maldives Correctional Service with honor in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article shall be given special benefits and privileges in accordance with the retirement regulations.

(d) The maximum age for serving in the Maldives Correctional Service is 65 (sixty-five) years. This Article shall come into effect 1 (one) year after the commencement of this Act.

(e) If the Commissioner of Prisons and the Deputy Commissioner of Prisons wish to resign, they shall send a letter to the President of the Republic stating the reason. If employees of other ranks wish to resign, they shall submit a letter to the Commissioner stating the reason.

(f) If an employee of the Maldives Correctional Service is dismissed from employment in a situation mentioned in Article 40 of this Act, that person shall not receive any benefit or privilege given under subsection (d) of this Article.

**Dismissal from Employment**

40. The Commissioner has the discretion and power under Article 20 of this Act to dismiss a person from the employment of the Maldives Correctional Service for absconding from employment, for having a moral issue, for committing a crime, or for violating this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

**Absconding from Employment**

41. 

(a) If an employee of the Maldives Correctional Service absconds from employment or attempts to abscond from employment, that person shall be punished as determined in this Act or the regulations made under this Act.

(b) An employee of the Maldives Correctional Service shall be deemed to have absconded from employment under subsection (a) of this Article if he voluntarily relieves himself of the responsibility assigned to him by the Maldives Correctional Service, if he leaves the duty assigned to him by the Maldives Correctional Service without permission, or if he is absent from work for 14 (fourteen) days without obtaining permission, or in an emergency situation, if he fails to report for duty in violation of an order made by his superior, or if he refuses to report, or in a special operational situation in the care of inmates, if he absconds or ignores it knowing it.

(c) Every person who encourages, or instigates, or assists an employee of the Maldives Correctional Service to abscond from employment in the manner stated in subsection (a) of this Article shall be guilty of an offense under this Act.

**Injury in the Line of Duty**

42. If an employee of the Maldives Correctional Service is injured or becomes disabled in the line of duty, he shall be given due compensation in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

**Welfare Fund**

43. 

(a) A welfare fund may be established to improve the welfare of the employees of the Maldives Correctional Service and the Minister may authorize expenditure from that fund for the welfare of the employees.

(b) If the Minister sees fit, the Minister has the discretion to entrust the establishment and administration of the welfare fund under subsection (a) of this Article to the Commissioner of Prisons.

(c) In order to promote and further develop the welfare fund mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article, business may be conducted on a cooperative basis aimed at the employees of the Maldives Correctional Service and their families, and persons who leave the employment of the Maldives Correctional Service with honor, in accordance with the law and regulations.

(d) The Minister has the discretion to grant permission to establish the legal personality, association, or group that needs to be established from among the employees of the Maldives Correctional Service to conduct business as mentioned in subsection (c) of this Article, in accordance with the relevant laws.

**Oath of Prison Officers**

44. 

(a) Upon the establishment of the Maldives Correctional Service established under this Act, all officers shall take the oath in Schedule 1 of this Act in order to perform the duties that prison officers must perform and to bear the responsibilities that must be borne in a responsible manner.

(b) From the date of commencement of this Act, every officer who is employed by the Maldives Correctional Service upon its establishment shall take the officers' oath mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article before a judge.

(c) It is the duty of every officer to remain steadfast on the officers' oath.

**Disciplinary Board**

45. 

(a) The Minister shall appoint a Disciplinary Board to investigate and take action on offenses committed by inmates and officers.

(b) The work of the board mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be to advise the Commissioner in investigating and taking action on disciplinary offenses committed by prison officers, and to look into cases related to prison offenses committed by inmates.

(c) The Disciplinary Board, in investigating a case, shall perform its duties independently, without yielding to the instructions or influence of any party, and in an impartial manner.

(d) The Disciplinary Board, in the course of investigating a case submitted to it, shall give the person suspected in that case an opportunity to present matters orally and to present evidence related to the case.

(e) The Disciplinary Board, in the course of investigating cases submitted to it, shall give the person suspected in the case an opportunity to appoint a person of his choice to speak on his behalf and to make the submissions that need to be made.

**Seeking the Assistance of the Police and the Military in an Emergency**

46. 

(a) In the event of an emergency, the assistance of the police or the military may be sought to perform the duties of the officers in the prison with the permission of the Commissioner, in order to assist the Director of Prisons. If the assistance of the police or the military is sought in this way, they shall have all the powers given to the officers under this Act.

(b) A regulation regarding seeking the assistance of the military or the police in the event of an emergency in the prison and obtaining that assistance shall be formulated by the Commissioner with the advice of the Minister. This regulation shall state the situations and ways in which the assistance of the police or the military can be sought, and the details of how to act in obtaining such assistance.

**Chapter Five**
**Detention in Prison**

**Matters to be Ascertained Before Detention**

47. Before detaining any person in prison, the following matters shall be ascertained.

(a) Who the person being detained is;

(b) If that person is a person against whom no crime has been proven, under which law that person is being detained and whether it is in accordance with that law;

(c) If that person is a person against whom a crime has been proven, whether the court has sentenced that person to be detained.

**Procedure for Detention**

48. For every inmate brought to be detained in prison, the following matters shall be completed in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

(a) To complete the documents related to his detention;

(b) To search and inspect that person, and to check whether he has anything that cannot be brought into the prison, and if there is such a thing, to confiscate it; a regulation on how to deal with the things confiscated in this way shall be made.

(c) To determine his security classification;

(d) To complete the medical assessment mentioned in Article 50 of this Act;

(e) To determine a program that states the work he will do and other things he must do during his days in prison;

(f) To inform and familiarize him with how to behave in prison and the services that will be available from the prison.

**Conducting a Medical Assessment of Inmates**

49. 

(a) Before detaining every inmate in prison, a medical officer or a nurse designated by him shall conduct a medical assessment of that inmate.

(b) The medical assessment conducted under subsection (a) of this Article shall be conducted to determine the following.

(1) To see if any physical or mental harm has been sustained;

(2) To identify what kind of treatment that person needs;

(3) To see if it is important to isolate him due to the presence of a contagious disease;

(4) To see if there is anything that could make it difficult to continue treatment due to physical or mental harm; and

(5) To see if that person is physically fit to work.

**Separating Men and Women**

50. Men and women detained in prison shall be kept separately.

**Mothers Who Have to Look After Infants**

51. 

(a) If a woman detained in prison has a child under 2 (two) years of age, and if she is breastfeeding that child, the child shall be kept with her mother in accordance with the regulations made under this Act. This can be done until the child is 2 (two) years old.

(b) The place where women who keep their children with them in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article will be kept, and the procedure for the medical treatment and food and drink that those children must receive shall be determined in the regulations made under this Act.

(c) An inmate or a person in detention shall act in accordance with the procedures determined by Article 115 of this Act for a child under 1 (one) year of age as mentioned in paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of Article 115 of this Act to be breastfed and to be with the child outside the prison until the child is 1 (one) year old, in accordance with the regulations made under Article 116 of this Act.

**Maintaining Information of Inmates**

52. 

(a) In every prison, a register of the persons detained in that prison shall be written and maintained by the Director of Prisons.

(b) In addition to the register mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article, a file containing the following information shall be written and maintained by the Director of Prisons for each inmate detained in that prison.

(1) Who the person being detained is;

(2) The reason for detention, the duration, and the party that ordered it;

(3) The date and time of detention;

(4) The level of his security classification;

(5) The state of his health when he was detained in prison;

(6) His medical history;

(7) His previous criminal record;

(8) The program determined for him;

(9) If he is a person who can be given the opportunity of parole, that fact and the date on which he must be proposed for parole;

(10) The date on which he will be released from prison;

(11) Information about his responsible guardian in the Maldives to be contacted in an emergency.

(c) The master copy of the inmate's file mentioned in subsection (b) of this Article shall be at the main office of the Maldives Correctional Service. A copy shall be at the prison.

(d) The Director of Prisons shall regularly write and maintain the changes that occur to the information mentioned in subsection (b) of this Article to be included in the inmate's file. And it is the responsibility of the Director of Prisons to send the changes made in that way to the main office of the Maldives Correctional Service.

**Property in the Possession of Inmates at the Time of Detention**

53. 

(a) If a person has any of his own property in his possession at the time of his detention in prison, that property shall be handed over to a responsible guardian of his choice within 90 (ninety) days. If a person does not appoint someone in this way or if a responsible guardian appointed by him does not take charge of the property, that property shall be handed over to him under the supervision of the Director of Prisons when he has finished serving his sentence. If there is anything that is perishable and cannot be kept for a long time, it can be disposed of under a relevant regulation.

(b) If a person has anything that is contrary to the law and regulations in his possession at the time of his detention in prison, that thing can be disposed of under a regulation determined by the Director of Prisons.

**Transporting Inmates to and from Places**

54. 

(a) Inmates shall be transported from one place to another in such a way that they cannot escape.

(b) If an inmate escapes while being transported from one place to another, or while under the custody of the transporting party, the Director of Prisons shall take action against the negligent party under this Act or in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

(c) The Director of Prisons shall ensure that the vehicle used to transport inmates from one place to another is prepared safely with air circulation to a standard determined by the Inspector.

**Determining the Security Classification Level for Inmates**

55. 

(a) Every inmate detained in prison shall be assigned a security classification level in accordance with Schedule 2 of this Act within 21 (twenty-one) days of his detention in prison, and a place shall be arranged for him to be detained in prison in accordance with the security classification level so determined.

(b) The security classification level shall be determined to determine the extent to which that person will be supervised in his detention in the prison or a part of the prison and the area of the prison where he will be detained.

(c) In determining the security classification level of a person detained in prison, consideration shall be given to the harm that may be caused by that person to the safety and security of the prison, the harm that may be caused by that person to other persons detained in the prison, and the harm that may be caused to that person by other persons in the prison. And consideration shall also be given to the harm that person may inflict upon himself.

(d) In determining the security classification level of inmates, the following matters shall be considered.

(1) The nature of the crime he committed and the gravity of the crime;

(2) If there is a previous criminal record, that record;

(3) His state of health and mental state;

(4) His age;

(5) If a charge has been filed against him in connection with another crime, that fact;

(6) If he has been detained in prison before, the way his actions were during the period he spent in prison;

(7) If he has escaped from prison before or if he has attempted to escape, that fact;

(8) If a security classification has been determined before and that classification has been changed, that fact;

(9) The extent to which he may pose a danger to other inmates;

(10) If a person who is a relative or connected to the person who was harmed by the crime he committed is in that prison, that fact.

(e) Depending on the extent to which he may pose a danger, he shall be assigned the lowest possible security classification level.

**Informing of the Determination or Review of the Security Classification Level**

56. 

(a) If a security classification level is determined for any inmate or if the determined level is reviewed, the reason shall be stated and that person shall be informed of it in writing within 3 (three) days from the date of such determination or review.

(b) In the following situations, if the Director of Prisons sees fit, subsection (a) of this Article need not be applied.

(1) For national security;

(2) To reduce crime and unrest in prison;

(3) To protect a third party.

**Reviewing Security Classification Levels**

57. 

(a) The security classification level of other inmates, except for inmates in the lowest security classification level, shall be reviewed at least once a year.

(b) Notwithstanding what is stated in subsection (a) of this Article, if the Director of Prisons sees fit that the security classification level determined for a particular inmate among the inmates in the lowest security classification level needs to be reviewed due to the way his actions are, his security classification level shall be reviewed.

(c) If a situation arises where a person's security classification needs to be raised due to something he does or due to his moral standard, his security classification level shall be reviewed without delay and the necessary change shall be made to his security classification.

**Program for Enforcing the Sentence**

58. 

(a) When a security classification is determined for a person brought to serve a sentence in prison, a way or program for how to act in enforcing his sentence shall be determined.

(b) The program mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall include the following.

(1) If that person needs special assistance, the details of it;

(2) If that person needs medical treatment, the details of it;

(3) The things that will be done to bring him back to society;

(4) The programs he will participate in and the work he will do in prison.

**Calculating the Period of Detention**

59. 

(a) The period of detention of persons detained in prison shall be calculated including the day of detention or the day on which he was sentenced.

(b) The day on which the period determined for detention expires shall be the day on which he will be released from prison.

(c) Unless the court orders otherwise, the period of detention of persons sentenced for more than one crime shall be calculated by starting with the most severe sentence and continuing with all the sentences in order, without interruption.

**Chapter Six**
**Fundamental Rights and Freedoms of Persons Detained in Prison**

**Upholding Fundamental Rights and Freedoms**

60. 

(a) With reference to Articles 16 and 57 of the Constitution, inmates and detainees shall be treated with respect and in a manner befitting human beings. And they shall be deprived of any right or freedom in Chapter Two of the Constitution only to the extent absolutely necessary for that purpose, in accordance with this Act.

(b) The upholding of a fundamental right or freedom of them to the extent absolutely necessary to maintain the safety and interests of the prison and to reform inmates and detainees, in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act, and the taking of a reformatory measure stated in the regulations or prison order in connection with an act committed by any of them in the prison, shall not be considered a violation of the principle stated in subsection (a) of this Article.

(c) In addition to the matters stated in this Act to uphold the fundamental rights and freedoms of inmates and detainees, this Act does not prevent the upholding of any such right or freedom to the extent that it conflicts with the basis of detention in prison, in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

**Economic and Social Rights**

61. Although subsection (b) of Article 23 of the Constitution states that the State shall work to facilitate the way to obtain the opportunity to use the natural resources of the Maldives, the means of transport, the state's news broadcasting facilities, and all kinds of communication services, to the extent of the state's wealth and ability, inmates and detainees do not have those rights except to the extent stated in this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

**Forming Political Parties, Associations, and Groups**

62. Except for being a general member of a political party and associations, the right to be a responsible person of any such place and to participate in other activities conducted by those places is not available during the period of detention in prison for the purpose of serving a sentence.

**Assembly**

63. Although Article 32 of the Constitution gives every person the freedom to assemble peacefully without prior permission from the state, that freedom is not available during the period of detention in prison.

**Right to Work**

64. Although Article 37 of the Constitution gives every citizen the right to perform a job or work of his choice, that opportunity is given to inmates and detainees only to the extent stated in that chapter, in accordance with Chapter 11 of this Act.

**Participation in Cultural Activities**

65. The right to participate in the various cultural activities of the nation is available during the period of detention in prison in a manner stated in this Act and the regulations made under this Act, to the extent stated.

**Travel**

66. The freedom to leave the Maldives and to travel to different parts of the Maldives is available to inmates and detainees in the situations stated in this Act and the regulations made under this Act, to the extent stated.

**Other Rights**

67. Although subsection (b) of Article 62 of the Constitution states that it is not a matter that prevents the seeking or obtaining of other rights and freedoms not included in Chapter Two of the Constitution, any such right or freedom is available to inmates and detainees to the extent that it does not conflict with the basis of detention in prison, and if he is an inmate, with the basis of enforcing the sentence determined for him.

**Chapter Seven**
**How Things Should Be in Prison and Services Provided to Inmates**

**Basic Standards for How Inmate Quarters Should Be**

68. The places where inmates stay in prison and the places where they work shall meet the following basic standards.

(a) The places where inmates are housed and the places where they work shall have light and air circulation to the extent determined in the regulations made under this Act;

(b) To have arrangements for water and toilet facilities for bathing and cleaning, and for male inmates to have their hair cut and beards shaved;

(c) Arrangements for sleeping and things needed for sleeping.

**Basic Services for Inmates**

69. During the period inmates are in prison, the following basic services shall be available to them.

(a) Arrangements for praying, reciting the Quran, and fasting;

(b) Arrangements for eating and drinking;

(c) Arrangements for medical treatment;

(d) Arrangements for using the toilet, bathing and cleaning the body, and for exercise;

(e) Arrangements for obtaining the assistance needed to be brought back to society;

(f) Arrangements for washing and changing the inmates' uniform or other clothing;

(g) Arrangements for communicating and meeting with family;

(h) To have things for writing letters and books to read in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

**Determining How Prisons and Other Places of Detention Should Be**

70. 

(a) The procedures for how things should be in prisons and how things should be done in those places shall be determined in the regulations made under this Act, in a manner that does not conflict with Articles 68 and 69 of this Act.

(b) The regulation mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall include the following matters.

(1) The way prisons should be constructed, the amount of natural light and clean air that should enter those places, and the standards for electricity, water, and toilet services;

(2) The procedures for the care of persons in prisons and how to deal with persons, the basic services that must be provided to every person detained, and the standards for other services;

(3) The standards for the food and medical care provided to persons in prison.

**Food**

71. 

(a) The food and drink of inmates shall be things that are accepted by a relevant government authority in terms of substance and health.

(b) If a particular inmate is a person for whom a doctor has advised, under a regulation, to be given a particular type of food due to a health problem, that shall be arranged accordingly.

(c) Every inmate shall be given food promptly in accordance with the regulations.

(d) The drinking water provided to inmates shall be water that meets a standard determined by a relevant government authority.

**Exercise**

72. Unless otherwise determined under this Act, inmates other than those in the highest security classification and working inmates shall be taken out of the place where they are detained for at least 1 (one) hour a day for exercise if the weather permits. And inmates in the highest security classification shall be taken out of the place where they are detained for exercise under a procedure determined by the Director of Prisons.

**Clothing and Uniform**

73. 

(a) In prisons where it is arranged for inmates to wear a specific uniform, a procedure and regulation for inmates to wear the uniform shall be formulated and the Director of Prisons shall arrange it in accordance with that regulation.

(b) Except in a situation specified and stated in the regulations, when an inmate is taken out of the prison, he shall be given the opportunity to wear ordinary clothes if he wishes.

**Benefits Given to Inmates**

74. In addition to the basic services mentioned in Article 69 that inmates must receive, a system shall be established by the Director of Prisons whereby they can be given additional benefits in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act, based on their conduct. This may also include the following benefits.

(a) To arrange for inmates to come out of the place where they are detained and spend time with other inmates;

(b) To increase the opportunity to meet under Article 92 of this Act;

(c) To arrange for inmates to get married.

**Chapter Eight**
**Arrangement of Medical Treatment and Medical Assessment**

**Medical Treatment**

75. In every prison, there shall be medical officers and psychiatric officers in proportion to the population of that prison to provide health care to inmates. The medical officers in this way shall be persons who have the education and experience accepted by the Medical Council of the Maldives and who work in that field.

**Responsibility of the Medical Officer**

76. The following is the responsibility of the medical officer of the prison.

(a) To treat persons who request medical treatment among those detained in prison, and if it is seen that a particular inmate needs treatment that cannot be given in the prison, to report that to the Director of Prisons.

(b) To determine the food to be given to inmates who need a particular kind of food due to a health problem.

(c) To prepare an assessment report after identifying the health and mental state of every inmate brought to the prison in order to determine their security classification.

**Persons Who Cannot Be Treated in Prison**

77. The Commissioner shall arrange for persons who are reported to be untreatable in prison under subsection (a) of Article 76 of this Act to receive treatment from outside the prison. And if a health treatment that an inmate absolutely needs is not available in the Maldives under his health insurance scheme or with the financial assistance of his family, the Commissioner shall arrange for him to go abroad in a manner that does not conflict with Article 117 of this Act.

**Checking for Objections and Obtaining Permission**

78. Except in the situations in Article 76 of this Act, when conducting a medical examination of an inmate or before giving medical treatment to an inmate, that person shall be informed of it and it shall be checked whether he has any objection.

**Power to Conduct Medical Examination and Give Treatment to Inmates**

79. Even if an inmate has not given permission for a medical examination or to receive medical treatment, or if he has refused any such thing, a medical officer may examine an inmate and give him treatment without his consent, using the minimum amount of force necessary for that purpose, in the following situations.

(a) Refusal to undergo the medical assessment mentioned in Article 50 of this Act that must be done before detention in prison; or

(b) Refusal to undergo a medical examination ordered by the Commissioner or the Director of Prisons under Article 80 of this Act; or

(c) The medical officer believes that the refusal of an inmate to undergo a medical examination could cause harm to his or another person's life or health; or

(d) The inmate is unconscious or is in a situation where he cannot give permission due to any other disability he is facing.

**Conducting a Medical Examination for the Purpose of Evidence**

80. In situations where an inmate is suspected of having committed an offense such as that mentioned in Article 97 of this Act, the matter may be submitted to an investigative authority and he may be investigated under a court order, and if it is believed with reasonable cause that it can be proven that he committed that offense by conducting a medical examination of him, a medical officer may conduct a medical examination of that inmate under the order of the Director of Prisons.

**Maintaining Medical Records**

81. The medical record of every inmate shall be maintained by that prison. And that record shall include the following information.

(a) The inmate's name and age;

(b) The treatment given and being given;

(c) The medicine given and advised to be given and the details of how the medicine was given;

(d) Other available information regarding the medicine given to the inmate and his existing health problems.

**Transferring Inmates from Prison for a Health Risk**

82. 

(a) If a medical officer notes any of the following, he shall inform the Director of Prisons of that matter in writing.

(1) Having a disease that makes it impossible to serve the sentence in prison;

(2) Having a mental illness that is not expected to be cured;

(3) Having a contagious disease.

(b) Based on the notifications given by the medical officer as in subsection (a) of this Article, the Commissioner may, with the advice of the Director of Prisons, give permission in writing to transfer an inmate from the prison to another place until the notified matter is resolved.

(c) If a large number of inmates need to be transferred from the prison to another place to be safe from a spreading contagious disease, the transfer shall be done with the written permission of the Commissioner with the consultation of the Director of Prisons.

**Inmates Temporarily Transferred to Another Place**

83. 

(a) Persons transferred to a place other than a prison under Article 82 of this Act shall remain in detention until they are released after treatment or are brought back to the prison in any other way.

(b) The days a person is detained in a place as mentioned in this Article shall be deducted from his sentence.

**Report on the Medical Center**

84. If the affairs of the prison's medical center are not up to the standard in this Act, or if a matter arises that obstructs the duty of the medical officer, the medical officer shall inform the Director of Prisons of that matter in writing.

**Medical Officer Entering the Prison**

85. The medical officer of the prison may enter any area of the prison at any time to perform his duty.

**Informing of the Death of an Inmate or Transfer to Another Place**

86. 

(a) If an inmate or a detainee dies or becomes unusually seriously ill, or is transferred to another place in connection with an illness, or if he is seriously injured, the responsible guardian he has appointed shall be informed without delay.

(b) If a foreigner detained in prison dies, his country's embassy shall be informed as soon as possible.

**What to Do if an Inmate Dies or is Seriously Injured**

87. If a person dies in prison or is seriously injured, the following shall be done.

(a) If there is a serious injury, to immediately show that person to the prison's medical officer and to give treatment;

(b) If it is death, to immediately show him to the prison's medical officer and to conduct a medical examination, and with this information being provided to the authorities designated by law to investigate criminal offenses, not to bury the body of the deceased except under the advice and guidance of that authority;

(c) If a person dies or a person is seriously injured, to immediately inform the Inspector, the Commissioner, and the Minister by the Director of Prisons;

(d) If a person dies or a serious injury occurs, to investigate how it happened and to submit a provisional report to the Commissioner and the Minister within 24 (twenty-four) hours, and to submit a full report by the Director of Prisons as soon as possible;

(e) If a person died as a result of a fight that took place in the prison, to invite an independent state institution to investigate the matter by giving information on how it happened within a maximum of 48 (forty-eight) hours from the time it happened;

(f) If a person is seriously injured as a result of a fight that took place in the prison, to take the necessary legal action in relation to the matter;

(g) If a person dies or a person is seriously injured as a result of a fight, to take the necessary security measures in the prison in connection with it.

**Report Submitted by the Director of Prisons**

88. The report submitted by the Director of Prisons under subsection (d) of Article 87 of this Act shall include the following matters.

(a) If it has been previously noted that the deceased or injured person had a disease, the details of it and the treatment given and the dates of treatment;

(b) How the incident occurred on the day of death or injury;

(c) If he was admitted to the hospital, the date and time it was done;

(d) The symptoms of the illness or the details of the injury sustained;

(e) The reason the medical officer states for his death;

(f) The date and time of death and the condition he was in after his death and other matters that the medical officer sees fit to include in such a report;

(g) The matters that the Director of Prisons sees as the reasons for his death or injury.

**Chapter Nine**
**Hearing the Complaints of Inmates**

**Addressing the Complaints of Inmates and Their Requests**

89. 

(a) Inmates and detainees shall be given the opportunity to submit their complaints and the things they want to the Director of Prisons or a prison officer designated by him.

(b) Depending on the nature and gravity of the complaint made by the inmate and other complaints previously made by that inmate, the Director of Prisons may act in one of the following ways.

(1) If it is believed with reasonable cause that the complaint is not based on any truth, to respond that the complaint will not be investigated further and that it has been decided so;

(2) Every other complaint, except for the complaint mentioned in paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of this Article, to be investigated further and a response to be given, and the necessary action to be taken.

(c) The Director of Prisons or a prison officer designated by him shall do the following.

(1) To write and maintain the complaints made by an inmate or detainee and the things he wanted and the actions taken in that regard;

(2) To investigate the complaints made by an inmate or detainee and the things he wanted and to inform him of the decision made on that matter within 5 (five) days; and

(3) If a complaint made by an inmate or detainee is a complaint made because he has sustained a physical injury, to immediately give the necessary medical treatment to him in that regard and to report to the Commissioner.

**If Not Satisfied with the Response Given by the Director of Prisons, Submitting the Matter to the Inspector**

90. 

(a) If an inmate or detainee is not satisfied with the way the Director of Prisons or a prison officer has acted regarding a complaint made or a matter requested, he may submit the matter to the Inspector of Correctional Service. In such cases, the Director of Prisons shall facilitate the way to inform the Inspector of the matter.

(b) An inmate or detainee may submit his complaint directly to the Inspector at a time when the Inspector of Correctional Service is inspecting and examining the prison.

**The Inspector Hearing the Complaint and Making a Decision**

91. 

(a) In the situation in Article 90 of this Act, the Inspector shall do the following.

(1) To question the complaining inmate or detainee and to clarify the complaint or the matter he wants;

(2) To talk to the Director of Prisons about the complaint made by the inmate or detainee and if it is a valid complaint, to propose to find a solution to it.

(b) If a complaint made by an inmate or detainee in accordance with paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this Article cannot be resolved by talking, the matter may be submitted to the Commissioner.

**Chapter Ten**
**Visiting the Prison and Communication**

**Visiting the Prison and Communication**

92. Visiting the prison and meeting with inmates and detainees, and the communication of inmates and detainees with others shall be done in accordance with the regulations made under this Act. And the way to do the following things shall be determined in that regulation.

(a) To meet with inmates and detainees;

(b) To exchange letters and similar things between inmates and detainees and other people, to call by phone, and to use other communication facilities.

**Searching and Inspecting Letters or Similar Things**

93. The Director of Prisons has the discretion to read, listen to, record, or search and inspect letters or other such things received by or sent by inmates and detainees. And under the discretion given to the Director of Prisons, the giving or delivery of such a letter or thing may also be prohibited, with reference to the following reasons.

(a) Being a thing of a nature that threatens any party or being a writing expressed in indecent language;

(b) That the letter or writing is something that could facilitate the commission of a criminal offense or that could obstruct the investigation of a criminal offense or the filing of a charge for a criminal offense;

(c) Containing information that could pose a danger to national security;

(d) Containing information that could affect the safety and security of the prison and the administration of the prison;

(e) Containing information that could affect the fundamental rights of a third party.

**Appointing Legal Counsel**

94. If an inmate or detainee needs legal advice, an arrangement shall be made for him to meet with his legal counsel. And in the meeting conducted in this way, a prison officer shall be present within sight of the two of them.

**Communication Between the Inmate, Legal Counsel, and Various Parties**

95. 

(a) Letters and similar things may be exchanged between inmates and detainees, their legal counsel, the courts, and other state institutions.

(b) The things exchanged in this way can be opened, read, or withheld without being delivered to the party to whom the letter is sent only for the following reasons, based on the intelligence received in relation to the matter, by the Director of Prisons.

(1) Believing that the letter contains a statement that is contrary to the law or regulations;

(2) Believing that the information contained in the letter is a matter that could pose a danger to the safety of the prison or the safety of other persons in the prison.

(c) If a letter is withheld in accordance with subsection (b) of this Article, the inmate shall be informed of it.

**Visiting Foreigners Detained in Prison**

96. Foreigners detained in prison shall be given the opportunity to meet with a person appointed by the government of that foreigner at any reasonable time. And if it is not known for certain what country that person is from, a person appointed by him shall be given that opportunity to meet with him.

**Chapter Eleven**
**Offenses Committed by Inmates in Prison**

**Prison Offenses**

97. If an inmate or detainee does any of the following, he will be considered to be committing a prison offense.

(a) Creating a disturbance in the prison or attempting to create a disturbance;

(b) Violating an order made by a prison officer in accordance with the regulations made under this Act;

(c) Possessing, receiving, or attempting to obtain any object that is prohibited from being kept in the prison in the regulations made under this Act;

(d) Behaving in a manner that is contrary to the standard of conduct established in the prison or in a way that harms the safety and interests of other inmates.

(e) Violating this Act, or a regulation made under this Act, or a prison order issued.

**Defense**

98. An inmate accused of an offense mentioned in Article 90 of this Act shall be given an opportunity to speak in his defense and to present evidence.

**System for Investigating Offenses Committed in Prison**

99. An internal disciplinary system shall be established to investigate offenses committed by inmates and detainees and to determine the action to be taken on the offenses proven against them, and a regulation on how to deal with inmates under that system shall be made by the Commissioner with the advice of the Minister. This system shall be based on a way in which the case can be investigated independently.

**Taking Action in Relation to Prison Offenses**

100. 

(a) If an inmate or detainee is suspected of having committed a prison offense, the prison officer shall immediately inform the Director of Prisons of that matter. And as soon as the Director of Prisons is informed of that matter, that matter shall be investigated immediately.

(b) After the completion of an investigation conducted under subsection (a) of this Article, if the Director of Prisons sees fit, the following things may be done depending on the nature and circumstances of the alleged offense.

(1) If the person accused of the offense agrees to correct his actions, to postpone the case for a period not exceeding 2 (two) months without taking further action against him and to monitor his actions, and if he corrects his actions during that period, not to proceed with the case; or

(2) To send the case to the Disciplinary Board for investigation.

(c) Depending on the gravity of the offense committed by an inmate or detainee, the Director of Prisons has the discretion to transfer him to a place other than the one where he is detained until his case is concluded, in order to maintain the interests of the prison.

**Disciplinary Hearing**

101. 

(a) Cases submitted under paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of Article 100 of this Act shall be investigated by the Disciplinary Board mentioned in Article 45 of this Act.

(b) Before holding a disciplinary hearing, it shall be checked whether an inmate accused of an offense wishes to present any evidence or proof to clear himself of the offense, or whether he wishes to speak in his defense, and if he requests such an opportunity, the Disciplinary Board shall give a reasonable opportunity for that.

(c) A disciplinary hearing shall be held and the case shall be concluded within a maximum of 14 (fourteen) days from the commission of the alleged act.

**Determining Punishment**

102. 

(a) The Disciplinary Board may determine one or more of the following punishments for an offense proven in a disciplinary hearing.

(1) A benefit or a part of a benefit given to the inmate not to be given for a period not exceeding 1 (one) month;

(2) To determine that a reduction of the punishment for the offense cannot be requested for 1 (one) month;

(3) Solitary confinement for a period not exceeding 30 (thirty) days.

(b) Depending on the gravity of the offense, instead of giving a punishment mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article, it may be decided to counsel and warn the inmate.

**Solitary Confinement of Inmates and Detainees**

103. 

(a) If it is decided to place an inmate or detainee in solitary confinement under a disciplinary hearing, the Director of Prisons shall be informed of that immediately.

(b) The Director of Prisons shall place an inmate or detainee in solitary confinement in accordance with the relevant regulations and prison orders. The minimum benefits that an inmate in solitary confinement must receive shall be determined in the prison order.

(c) The condition of the inmate or detainee in solitary confinement shall be checked by a person appointed by the Director of Prisons at least once every 6 (six) hours. If, upon such checking, his condition is not found to be good, he shall be shown to a medical officer.

(d) If a medical officer sees that a dangerous harm could befall the physical and mental condition of the inmate or detainee, he shall not be kept in solitary confinement.

**Period for Which Inmates Can Be Kept in Solitary Confinement**

104. If two different decisions of solitary confinement are made against any person under a disciplinary hearing in subsection (a) of Article 103 of this Act, upon the enforcement of the decision made for the longer period, both decisions shall be deemed to have been enforced.

**Not Giving Punishment that Amounts to Torture**

105. No inmate shall be given a punishment that causes physical torture.

**Reducing the Amount of Food and Drink Given**

106. The amount of food and drink given to any inmate shall not be reduced as a punishment given to that person.

**Deduction of Benefits**

107. The benefits needed for a person detained for the purpose of investigation or for the purpose of trial to conduct the transactions necessary to clear himself of the offense for which he was detained in prison shall not be deducted as a punishment given to that person.

**Publicizing Matters Determined as Prison Offenses and Punishments**

108. 

(a) A copy of the details of the offenses determined as prison offenses under this Act, the way the disciplinary system works, and the punishments determined shall be kept in a place visible to inmates and detainees, and if any of them requests it, a copy of it shall be given to that person.

(b) Information about the prison offenses committed by inmates and detainees shall be written in a register and maintained by the Director of Prisons. And a copy of it shall be included in that person's file.

(c) Information about the offenses committed by inmates and detainees and the punishments given to them in connection with them shall be submitted to the Commissioner.

**Chapter Twelve**
**Conducting Rehabilitation Programs for Inmates and Giving the Opportunity to Work**

**Rehabilitation Programs**

109. 

(a) In order to keep inmates away from committing crimes and to facilitate their return to society and family as useful people, various activities and programs shall be determined by the Commissioner and conducted in every general prison. And in determining programs in this way, priority shall be given to including the following matters.

(1) To provide counseling services based on the mental state of the inmates;

(2) During the days spent in prison, to conduct programs that provide educational and vocational skills needed to acquire a job and to return to society and live as a useful person;

(3) To find opportunities for various activities, entertainment, sports, and employment.

(b) Programs from among the programs mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be conducted in custodial jails and remand jails to the extent stated in the regulations made under this Act, in the manner stated in the regulations.

**Staff Required to Conduct Rehabilitation**

110. To assist in providing rehabilitation and welfare programs and services and to conduct the work, a sufficient number of counselors, people who will serve in social arts, and rehabilitation officers shall be in every general prison.

**How to Act in Giving the Opportunity for Rehabilitation**

111. The following shall be done in giving the opportunity for rehabilitation and welfare programs.

(a) The inmate shall not be forced to receive the services.

(b) Inmates shall have the opportunity to receive those services except in a situation stated in the regulations, for the purpose of maintaining the general interests of the prison and the safety and security of the inmates.

(c) To encourage inmates to participate actively in the services and to facilitate the way for inmates to participate in those programs.

**Work of Rehabilitation and Welfare Officers**

112. The work of rehabilitation and welfare officers is stated below.

(a) To assist inmates in enduring life in prison, to assist in maintaining relations with family and members of the community, to prepare them for the life they will have to live when they are freed from prison and return to the general public, and to give guidance to inmates in those matters;

(b) To conduct programs to develop and shape the morals and life skills of inmates;

(c) In collaboration with various associations that provide social assistance, to conduct programs to reduce the opportunity for inmates to re-offend and to assist them in returning to society in a good way.

**Work Done by Inmates in Prison**

113. 

(a) The work assigned to inmates in prison shall not be work done with the intention of torture or harm.

(b) After looking at his physical and mental health, and with reference to the way determined by the medical officer, every inmate shall be encouraged to work in prison to the extent that the opportunity is available.

(c) If the number of persons in detention exceeds the number of jobs available in the prison, priority shall be given to persons with good morals, based on their moral standard.

(d) Inmates shall be made to work under the supervision of a prison officer.

(e) The working hours of inmates shall be arranged in such a way that they get at least 1 (one) day of rest per week.

**Giving a Wage for the Work Done by Inmates**

114. 

(a) A system shall be established whereby a reasonable wage can be given for the work done by inmates.

(b) Under the system established in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article, a portion of the income received by inmates shall be given the opportunity to be used to buy things that are permitted for their use and to be sent to their families.

**Chapter Thirteen**
**Temporary Release from Prison**

**Temporary Release of Inmates from Prison**

115. 

(a) In the following situations, the Commissioner may give permission to temporarily release an inmate or a detainee with conditions determined by the Minister.

(1) To perform the obligatory Hajj pilgrimage;

(2) The detained woman has a breastfeeding child under 1 (one) year of age;

(3) To visit a terminally ill or unusually ill family member;

(4) To attend the funeral of a family member;

(5) To go abroad to receive medical treatment that is not available in the Maldives.

(6) A pregnant woman in prison is 6 (six) months pregnant.

(b) In the situations mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article, a request for temporary release from prison shall be submitted to the Director of Prisons. Upon receiving such a submission, the Director of Prisons shall submit the matter to the Commissioner and the Minister. In such situations, it shall be done in accordance with the regulation formulated by the Commissioner on the following points mentioned in this Article.

(1) To take all necessary security measures, considering the harm that may be caused to another individual or a group of individuals in the community due to the inmate or person in detention being taken out of prison even for a moment.

(2) To take all necessary measures against the possibility of the inmate or person in detention escaping.

(3) To have the inmate or person in detention sign a declaration that he will respect all the things he must do in his conduct outside the prison.

(4) If there is a party that will be responsible for such matters in a family way, to obtain a written declaration from that party that the inmate or person in detention will act outside the prison.

(5) The procedure for arranging all matters of expenses if traveling to seek treatment from within the Maldives and from abroad on his own accord or under the national health insurance scheme.

(6) To have the period he must stay abroad and the period he will return to the Maldives determined, and to have the procedures for his care during that period and the expenses that will be incurred for that determined, and to have a party who will be responsible for those expenses.

(7) In such situations, to consider the extent to which the inmate respects the prison regulations and this Act in the serving of his sentence in prison.

(c) An inmate or a detainee in a prison may be temporarily released with a prison officer, under his direct supervision at all times. In this way, they may be temporarily released under the charge of officers in the situations mentioned in paragraphs (3) and (4) of subsection (a) of this Article. In the situations in paragraphs (1), (2), and (5) of subsection (a) of this Article, the inmate or detainee may be temporarily released from prison and handed over to be under the direct supervision of his guardian at all times.

(d) If inmates or detainees are temporarily released under this Article, the Director of Prisons shall inform the Maldives Police Service. In that way, complete information that will show the period for which that person is released and the conditions determined in the temporary release shall be sent to the Maldives Police Service.

**Regulation on Temporary Release**

116. A regulation on temporary release from prison for the reasons mentioned in subsection (a) of Article 115 of this Act shall be formulated by the Commissioner with the advice of the Minister. That regulation shall state the way to qualify for temporary release, the way to be released, the things that can be conditioned for persons who are released to do and not to do, and the situations in which a temporary release can be revoked. This regulation shall refer to the points in subsection (b) of Article 115 of this Act.

**Release for Medical Purposes**

117. In situations where a person serving a sentence needs medical treatment that is not available in the Maldives, if a relevant specialist doctor decides so, the Commissioner may give permission for him to be released to go abroad for medical purposes, in accordance with the medical regulations, as determined by the Medical Board appointed by the Minister.

**Persons Who Cannot Be Temporarily Released**

118. Inmates in the following situations are persons who cannot be temporarily released for any other purpose except to be given necessary medical treatment and due to a special situation.

(a) Inmates in the highest security classification;

(b) Inmates with a record of escaping from prison.

**Checking Whether Conditions are Upheld**

119. A system shall be established by the Commissioner to check whether inmates and detainees who are temporarily released in accordance with this Act are acting in accordance with the conditions determined for them.

**Revoking Temporary Release**

120. 

(a) If an inmate or detainee who is temporarily released violates the conditions determined for him during the period of his release, or if an employee entrusted by the Director of Prisons to care for him sees that his continued temporary release could pose a danger to the safety and security of the community, that employee shall inform the Director of Prisons of that matter.

(b) If an employee entrusted by the Director of Prisons to care for an inmate or detainee informs the Director of Prisons of a notification under subsection (a) of this Article, the Director of Prisons shall investigate the matter, and if he sees that the temporary release of that inmate or detainee needs to be terminated, he shall order the termination of the temporary release of that inmate or detainee and for him to be detained in prison again.

**Punishment for Violating the Conditions of Temporary Release**

121. If an inmate or detainee violates the conditions of temporary release, a punishment from among the punishments given for violating another order of the prison may be determined for him.

**A Person on Temporary Release Committing a Criminal Offense**

122. If an inmate or detainee who is on temporary release is suspected of having committed a criminal offense during the period of his release, he shall not be permitted to be kept on temporary release for a further period.

**Not Granting Permission for Temporary Release**

123. 

(a) If the Commissioner does not accept a submission made by an inmate or detainee requesting to be temporarily released, he shall be informed of that in writing stating the reason.

(b) In a situation where the Commissioner decides not to grant permission for temporary release, if that inmate or detainee is not satisfied with that decision, he may submit the matter to the Minister requesting that it be reviewed again.

**Deduction of the Sentence Period of Persons Temporarily Released**

124. The period spent outside the prison by inmates who are temporarily released in the situations mentioned in Article 115 of this Act shall not be considered as a period during which the sentence is being served.

**Chapter Fourteen**
**The Parole System**

**Granting the Opportunity for Parole**

125. Persons serving a sentence who have completed a specified portion of their sentence period shall be given the opportunity to be released under parole with specific conditions, in order to reintegrate them into the community in a way that does not harm the safety of the community, to the persons mentioned in this Act.

**Legal Status of Persons on Parole**

126. Persons released under parole who are serving a sentence are a group whose sentence period is postponed, without any change to their legal status. During the period they are on parole, they shall be considered as persons whose sentence has been postponed in the manner stated in the law.

**Formation of the Parole Board**

127. 

(a) In order to carry out all the work of the Parole Board, the Parole Board shall be formed by the President of the Republic with the inclusion of the following parties, upon the ratification of this Act and its publication in the Government Gazette of the Maldives. In the manner stated in this Act, the Commissioner, with the advice of the Minister, shall conduct and oversee all matters necessary to check how all the affairs of the Parole Board are proceeding, to release persons serving a sentence under this Act, and to administer and maintain the parole system in an appropriate manner.

(b) The Parole Board shall consist of the following 9 (nine) members.

(1) A senior civil service employee working in the Ministry of Education;

(2) A senior civil service employee working in the Ministry of Health;

(3) A legal counsel working in the Attorney General's Office;

(4) A member determined by the associations and groups active in the field related to the matters mentioned in the purpose of this Act;

(5) A senior officer of the Maldives Police Service;

(6) A scholar from among the religious scholars determined by the Islamic Ministry, appointed by the President of the Republic;

(7) A senior officer of the Maldives Correctional Service;

(8) A medical doctor;

(9) A person who provides psychological treatment.

(c) A separate office established by the Minister shall be there to release persons under parole and for the Board to perform its duties. All the affairs of this office, and the parole officers, other technical and administrative staff, and the building and expenses for running the office shall be maintained by the Maldives Correctional Service in a manner determined by the Minister.

(d) The Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of the Parole Board shall be appointed by a majority of the Board.

(e) The benefits of the Board members shall be determined by the Minister with the consultation of the Minister of Finance and Treasury.

**Responsibilities and Powers of the Parole Board**

128. In the manner stated in this Act, the Board has the power to do the following things within the scope of its authority.

(a) To grant the opportunity of parole to persons serving a sentence, and after conducting a parole interview, to determine the persons who are not seen fit to be given the opportunity;

(b) To determine the conditions for release on parole and to determine the code of conduct that persons released under parole must follow;

(c) To determine the period a person will be on parole and to make changes to the period;

(d) To determine that a person on parole is a person who has successfully completed the conditions of parole;

(e) To revoke the parole of a person released on parole.

**General Principles to be Followed by the Parole Board**

129. While the Parole Board works to achieve the objectives of the Parole Board, it shall act in accordance with the following principles.

(a) To give the highest priority to the interests of the community and to safety and security in deciding all cases; and

(b) To determine the conditions of parole in a way that all matters that could pose a danger to the safety of the community are permitted to the minimum extent.

**Matters to be Considered in Granting the Opportunity for Parole**

130. The opportunity for parole shall be given to persons serving a sentence who meet the following conditions.

(a) The punishment determined for him is imprisonment for 6 (six) months or a longer period, or exile, or house arrest;

(b) Being a person who has served a sentence for a period not shorter than the shortest period for which the opportunity of parole can be given as stated in Article 131 of this Act;

(c) If he is an inmate, having maintained a reasonably good moral standard during the period spent in prison and being a person who has completed the programs determined for that inmate by the prison;

(d) Not being a person who is believed to pose a danger to the community if he is released under parole;

(e) The Board believes that if he is released under parole, there is a high chance of him refraining from committing crimes and returning to society as a person who respects the law;

(f) Being a person who has no other case pending in the Maldives Police Service, a court having jurisdiction to hear criminal cases, and the Prosecutor General's Office.

**Shortest Period to be Eligible for Parole**

131. The opportunity for parole shall be given to persons who have served at least the following periods of their sentence.

(a) If a person is serving a sentence for a crime from among the following crimes or more than one sentence, having served half of the longest sentence imposed on him.

(1) The crime of terrorism;

(2)
(aa) A crime proven under Act No. 17/77 (Narcotic Drugs Act), for which the punishment is life imprisonment, in which the narcotic drug involved was diamorphine, and the amount of that narcotic drug was more than 4 (four) grams;
(bb) A crime proven under Act No. 17/77 (Narcotic Drugs Act), for which the punishment is life imprisonment, in which the narcotic drug involved was cannabis or a cannabis mixture or cannabis resin, and the amount of that narcotic drug was more than 14 (fourteen) grams;
(cc) A crime proven under Act No. 17/77 (Narcotic Drugs Act), for which the punishment is life imprisonment, in which the narcotic drug involved was a narcotic drug other than diamorphine, cannabis, a cannabis mixture, or cannabis resin, and the amount of that narcotic drug was more than 1 (one) gram;
(dd) A crime related to narcotic drugs proven under Act No. 17/2011 (Narcotic Drugs Act), for which the punishment is life imprisonment;

(3) Forcible commission of an immoral act;

(4) Kidnapping;

(5) Cases involving money of an amount of MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand) and above or property of that value, from among the crimes of theft, robbery, breach of trust, fraud and deceit, and extortion;

(6) Assault with a sharp object or a weapon, and causing serious harm to a person or an assault that endangers life;

(7) Carrying a dangerous weapon or a sharp object in a public place.

(b) For a person sentenced for a crime related to narcotic drugs, other than the crime mentioned in paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of Article 131 of this Act, having served one-third of the longest sentence imposed on him.

(c) The procedure for reducing the punishment for persons serving prison sentences, house arrest, and exile in various cases, other than the crimes mentioned in this Act, shall be determined under a regulation determined by the Parole Board after considering the gravity of that crime and referring to his criminal record.

**Parties Who Will Not Be Eligible for Parole**

132. If a person is serving a sentence for a crime from among the following crimes, that person will not be eligible for parole.

(a) Intentional killing of a person.

(b) Sexual abuse of children.

(c) Inmates who are serving a sentence for a crime for which another law determines that the punishment cannot be reduced.

**Applying for the Opportunity of Parole**

133. When 6 (six) months remain for the completion of the shortest period for which the opportunity of parole can be given as stated in Article 131 of this Act, he may apply for the opportunity of parole. And he may submit in writing the reasons why he thinks he should be given the opportunity of parole and how he will act if he is released on parole.

**Interviewing the Inmate**

134. Before making a decision on parole, the Parole Board shall interview the inmate.

**Matters to be Considered in Granting the Opportunity for Parole**

135. The Parole Board shall determine and announce the matters to be referred to and the standards to be followed in making a decision on a person who has applied for the opportunity of parole. It shall include the following matters.

(a) The crime for which he is serving a sentence;

(b) If he has a criminal record, that record;

(c) If he has a social problem, that fact (including problems such as drug use and domestic violence);

(d) If he has been previously released temporarily or on parole, the way his morals were at the time of release;

(e) The job he has previously held and information about his work;

(f) The danger that may be posed to the community by his release on parole;

(g) The way his conduct was while serving the sentence;

(h) The points noted by the judge who passed the sentence on him, and the discussions that took place in the court session;

(i) Information received from the person or persons who were harmed by the crime he committed;

(j) His mental state;

(k) The change that has come to his view on committing crimes;

(l) If he is an inmate, the programs he has participated in during his time in prison, and the jobs he has held.

**Determining Conditions in Releasing on Parole**

136. In releasing a person serving a sentence under parole, the Parole Board may condition him to do or not to do certain things. It may include the following matters.

(a) House arrest or ordering not to go outside the area of residence;

(b) To do certain things at certain times determined by the Parole Board;

(c) To report to a parole officer in the manner determined;

(d) To participate in the programs determined by the Parole Board;

(e) To behave in accordance with the standards determined by the Parole Board;

(f) Not to be arrested on suspicion of a crime during the parole period;

(g) To abide by the parole regulations.

**Recording and Disclosing the Decisions of the Parole Board**

137. 

(a) If the Parole Board decides on a matter, that decision and the reason for that decision shall be written by the Parole Board and its records shall be maintained.

(b) A copy of the decision made by the Parole Board regarding the granting of the opportunity of parole to a person serving a sentence shall be given to that person.

**Appointing Parole Officers**

138. 

(a) For every person released on parole, a parole officer shall be appointed to facilitate his compliance with the conditions of parole and to check whether he is acting in that way.

(b) The responsibilities of parole officers, the procedures for persons released under parole to report to parole officers, and the procedures that parole officers must follow in their care shall be determined by the Parole Board.

**Freedom of Persons on Parole**

139. As long as the person released on parole does not violate the conditions determined for him, he has the freedom to live like other people in the community. And as long as his parole is not revoked or temporarily suspended, he shall not be returned to serve his sentence during the period he is released on parole because of the sentence determined for him.

**Completing Parole**

140. 

(a) If the person released on parole does not violate the conditions of parole imposed on him and completes the period of parole determined for him, the Parole Board shall decide that he is a person who has completed parole.

(b) The following shall be done regarding the criminal cases of a person who has been determined by the Parole Board to be a person who has completed parole as in subsection (a) of this Article.

(1) The sentence or sentences that were being served on him shall not be further served.

(2) The investigation and trial related to the crimes suspected of being committed after being granted the opportunity of parole, and the crimes committed before being granted the opportunity of parole but which were not disclosed before, shall be proceeded with in accordance with the law.

**Situations in Which Parole May Be Suspended**

141. In the event of any of the following situations, the parole of the person released on parole may be suspended by the Parole Board.

(a) The person serving the sentence violates a condition of parole determined for him;

(b) The suspension of parole is an absolutely necessary thing to do to prevent the violation of the conditions of parole or for the safety and security of the community;

(c) A charge for a criminal offense is filed against him or he is arrested for investigation under a court order on suspicion of a criminal offense.

**Consequence of Suspension of Parole**

142. Upon the suspension of the parole of a person on parole in the manner stated in Article 141 of this Act, he shall be returned to serve his sentence until his parole is reviewed again.

(a) In reviewing the parole again, it shall be considered how he acted in the situation where the parole was suspended or in the situation where the parole was revoked, and whether the party enforcing the regulation was negligent in the implementation of the regulation determined for his conduct during the parole period, and whether he was excused from appearing at a certain place at a certain time at a certain time due to necessary circumstances, and whether his guardians or the parties who had declared to monitor his actions during the parole period were negligent.

(b) A procedure for reviewing and monitoring all the matters mentioned in this Article shall be established and a procedure for reviewing and monitoring such matters shall be determined in the regulations made under this Act.

**Revoking Parole**

143. In the event of any of the following matters, the parole of a person released on parole shall be revoked by the Parole Board.

(a) The Parole Board sees that a danger may be posed to the community by him due to the way his conduct was after he was released on parole;

(b) The inmate on parole requests to be returned to prison with a valid reason;

(c) The court determines that a criminal offense has been proven against him.

**Consequence of Revocation of Parole**

144. If the parole of a person released on parole is revoked, he shall be returned to the state he was in before being granted the opportunity of parole, and the remaining part of his sentence shall be served.

**Applying for Parole Again**

145. If the parole of a person serving a sentence is revoked, or if he is returned to serve his sentence for any reason, he cannot apply for the opportunity of parole again for a period of 6 (six) months from that day.

**Objecting to the Decision of the Parole Board**

146. 

(a) In the following situations, if a person serving a sentence objects to a decision made by the Parole Board regarding his parole, he has the right to submit the matter to the Parole Board again within 30 (thirty) days of the decision being made, requesting that the decision be reviewed. And in that submission, he shall state in detail the reason why he objects to that decision.

(1) The Parole Board did not have important information that should have been considered in making its decisions at the time the decision was made; or

(2) The law and regulations or a procedural rule was violated in the investigation of that case.

(b) When a matter is submitted to the Parole Board again in objection to a decision made by the Parole Board, in the manner stated in subsection (a) of this Article, the matter shall be investigated and a decision shall be made by a majority of the total members of the Parole Board.

(c) If a person is not satisfied with the decision made by the Parole Board upon submission of an objection to a decision made by the Parole Board regarding the parole of a person serving a sentence, in the manner stated in subsection (a) of this Article, he has the right to submit the matter to the court within 60 (sixty) days of the decision being made.

**Chapter Fifteen**
**General Articles**

**Informing of the Regulations**

147. 

(a) The Commissioner and the Director of Prisons shall make reasonable efforts to inform the prison officers, inmates, and persons visiting the prison of all the regulations and prison orders made under this Act, and to bring those regulations to their attention.

(b) The Director of Prisons shall make reasonable efforts to inform inmates who cannot read and write of all the regulations and prison orders related to inmates from among all the regulations and prison orders made under this Act. And such regulations and orders shall be read to inmates who do not know the Dhivehi language in a language they understand.

**Inmates and Other Persons Who Must Be Detained for Whom Different Treatment May Be Applied**

148. 

(a) The Minister may, through a regulation made under this Act, arrange for special treatment to be applied to the following inmates.

(1) Children under 18 (eighteen) years of age;

(2) Persons with special needs.

(b) In determining the procedures for dealing with foreigners who are detained for the purpose of deportation from the Maldives under Act No. 1/2007 (Maldives Immigration Act) in a manner determined by the Controller of Immigration and Emigration, reference shall be made to the procedures determined in this Act regarding inmates and detainees.

**Keeping and Selling Prison Property Contrary to Regulations**

149. 

(a) If a prison officer keeps any object entrusted to him for the performance of his duties in the possession of a person, he is committing a crime.

(b) If a person keeps an object that is part of the property of the prison, the reason for which he cannot explain, he is committing a crime.

(c) The punishment for a person who commits a crime mentioned in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article is a fine of an amount not exceeding MVR 25,000 (twenty-five thousand).

(d) If any person does any of the following without the permission of the Maldives Correctional Service, that person is committing a crime.

(1) To buy or receive any object that is part of the property of the prison; or

(2) To participate in or assist in the selling or giving of any object that is part of the property of the prison to a person.

(e) The punishment for a person who commits a crime mentioned in subsection (d) of this Article is a fine of an amount not exceeding MVR 35,000 (thirty-five thousand).

**Making Regulations**

150. 

(a) Unless otherwise explicitly stated in this Act, all the regulations that must be made under this Act shall be made and administered by the Commissioner with the advice of the Minister.

(b) In addition to the areas in which it is explicitly stated in this Act that regulations must be made, the Commissioner shall make regulations with the advice of the Minister regarding the following matters.

(1) Regulation on the administrative administration of the prison.

(2) Regulation on how to act in the prison to maintain the safety, security, and peace and order of the prison.

(3) Regulation on the employment of the Maldives Correctional Service.

(4) Regulation on the way the Inspector should act in inspecting and reporting on the prison.

(5) Regulation on how to deal with inmates, persons detained on suspicion of a crime, and persons who must be detained under a court order.

(6) Regulation on searching and inspecting the bodies of inmates, persons detained on suspicion of a crime, and persons who must be detained under a court order, and their belongings.

(7) Regulation stating the standards to be followed in obtaining various information to identify identity, such as taking samples from the bodies of inmates, persons detained on suspicion of a crime, and persons who must be detained under a court order, and taking photographs of inmates, fingerprints, blood groups, dental impressions, and body measurements.

(8) A regulation that determines the procedures for selling or disposing of objects that have no owner, and if those things are sold, the way the money obtained from the sale will be used.

(9) Regulation on the basic services and benefits that must be provided to inmates, persons detained on suspicion of a crime, and persons who must be detained under a court order.

(10) Regulation on the procedures to be followed in the detention of inmates, persons detained on suspicion of a crime, and persons who must be detained under a court order.

(11) Regulation on the meeting, phoning, and sending and receiving of letters and similar things by inmates, persons detained on suspicion of a crime, and persons who must be detained under a court order.

(12) Regulation on the temporary release of inmates.

(13) Regulation on parole.

(14) An internal disciplinary regulation stating the offenses committed by inmates, persons detained on suspicion of a crime, and persons who must be detained under a court order, and the actions to be taken on the offenses proven against them.

(15) Regulation on the use of force and the carrying of weapons by the parties managing the prison.

(16) Regulation on seeking the assistance of the military or the police in the event of an emergency in the prison.

(17) Regulation on the procedure to be followed if an inmate or a person detained on suspicion of a crime or a person who must be detained under a court order escapes from the prison.

(18) Regulation on seeking treatment from health care facilities in the Maldives and from abroad, other than the prison's health center, for inmates, persons arrested on suspicion of a crime, and persons who must be detained under a court order.

(19) Regulation on seeking treatment from health care facilities in the Maldives and from abroad, other than the prison's health center, for persons who must be kept in house arrest under a sentence of exile.

(20) Regulation on bringing a person in detention to a certain place at a certain time to perform the legal responsibilities of various positions required by the Constitution.

(21) Regulation on how to deal with persons who must serve sentences such as house arrest and exile.

(22) Regulation stating the qualifications that the Inspector of Correctional Service must have.

(23) Regulation on the marriage of persons serving a sentence.

(24) Medical regulation that persons serving a sentence must follow.

(c) Unless otherwise explicitly stated in this Act, the regulations that must be made under this Act shall be made and publicized within 3 (three) months of the passing, ratification, and publication of this Act in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

**Commencement of the Act**

151. This Act shall come into effect 1 (one) month after this Act is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

**Schedules to be Part of the Act**

152. The schedules of this Act are a part of this Act. This Act is complete with those schedules.

**Primacy of the Act**

153. Even if a matter stated in this Act is stated in another law, from the date of commencement of this Act after this Act is ratified and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives, for the purpose of this Act, in relation to that matter, to the extent stated in this Act, it shall be acted upon in accordance with this Act.

**Chapter Sixteen**
**Transitional Provisions**

**Establishment of the Maldives Correctional Service**

154. 

(a) Since the rights of persons detained and persons arrested are also protected in the rights guaranteed in Chapter Two of the Constitution of the Republic of the Maldives, and since it is determined to do things in a way that the same offense is not punished twice, and that no punishment is repeated for any inmate even by a law made later, and since the Prisons and Parole Act is the first law in the Maldives that determines and states the procedures for the release of criminals, detainees, persons who must be detained during the investigation stage, and inmates from among those whose punishment is reduced and the release of inmates on parole, and since there are many things that need to be newly established under this Act, such as general prisons, remand jails, and custodial jails, and at the time of commencement of such a law, for persons serving a sentence and the employment of all the employees working in such places under the regulations and procedures currently in effect for the care of prisons and criminals, and the benefits received by those parties, and the period of national service performed by such parties, when it is transferred without interruption to an institution newly established under this Act, to arrange for the period of service performed by those parties to also be transferred without interruption under this Act, and to give a reasonable period to determine the procedures for how to act on such matters, this chapter of this Act shall be used.

(b) Upon the ratification of this Act and its publication in the Government Gazette of the Maldives and the commencement of this Act, the Maldives Correctional Service mentioned in this Act shall be established.

(c) Until the regulations for how the Maldives Correctional Service established under this Act will operate are formulated within 90 (ninety) days of the ratification of this Act and its publication in the Government Gazette of the Maldives, the laws currently in effect shall continue to be applied.

**Determining Prisons**

155. 

(a) Within 1 (one) month from the date of publication of this Act in the Government Gazette after its ratification, all the prisons currently in use shall be determined to be the prisons mentioned in this Act.

(b) The Minister shall have all the power to determine and administer the names of the prisons, rehabilitation centers, and detention centers in a way that fits the various classifications classified in this Act, from the date of commencement of the Act after the law is ratified and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

(c) Until the prisons classified to the standard mentioned in the law are made within the period of 1 (one) year mentioned in subsection (b) of Article 3 of this Act, the prisons that currently exist shall be used in accordance with this Act. And the names and areas of these prisons shall be published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives. If it becomes necessary to detain persons in another such place in the manner of a prison during the transitional stage, before preparing such a place and keeping criminals or inmates in that place, the People's Majlis, the Human Rights Commission of the Maldives, and the Maldives Police Service shall be informed and it shall be published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

**Application of the Transitional Chapter**

156. 

(a) Unless otherwise explicitly stated in this chapter, the matters stated in this chapter shall be applied until the institutions, authorities, boards, positions, and prisons that need to be established under this Act are established, and the persons are assigned to the positions created in those places, and the things that are arranged to be done in different periods are done, and the periods determined in this Act are completed.

(b) In the transitional stage, it shall be acted upon in the manner determined for it in this Act.

**Officers Remaining in Their Positions**

157. The prison officers who are in their positions at the time of commencement of this Act shall remain in those positions until a decision is made under this Act.

**Transfer of Rights and Obligations of Employees**

158. Unless it is determined to act otherwise in another law, upon the establishment of the Maldives Correctional Service in accordance with this Act, all the employees of the Department of Penitentiary and Rehabilitation Services that was in operation before the commencement of this Act and all their rights and obligations are transferred to the Maldives Correctional Service established under this Act.

**Continuity of Laws and Regulations**

159. The laws and regulations that are in effect at the time of commencement of this Act and that do not conflict with this Act shall continue to be applied.

**Repealed Regulations**

160. 

(a) From the date of commencement of this Act after this Act is ratified and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives, the following regulations are repealed. And the systems that were in operation under those regulations, and the persons who were released under parole, shall continue to have the legal status they had under this Act until they are given legal status under this Act, and the systems that were in operation for them and their release on parole shall continue.

(1) Prison Regulation

(2) Parole Program Regulation

(b) A report compiled on all the difficulties encountered in the application of this Act during the transitional stage and the regulations that are being made and the changes that absolutely need to be made to the law shall be submitted to the relevant committee of the People's Majlis every three months.

**Meaning of Words and Phrases**

161. Unless otherwise stated in this Act, the following words and phrases are given the meaning given below to those words and phrases.

(a) "Person serving a sentence" refers to a person against whom a criminal offense has been proven in court, a sentence has been determined for him, and that sentence is being served.

(b) "Medical Officer" refers to a doctor appointed under Article 75 of this Act.

(c) "Minister" refers to the Minister in charge of administering the government ministry responsible for overseeing the prisons of the Maldives and overseeing the affairs of parole.

(d) "Non-lethal weapon" refers to a weapon used to maintain the security of the prison and to disperse disturbances that arise among inmates, by causing a disabling condition to a person's body or without causing such a condition, in a way that does not endanger a person's life. This includes tear gas, pepper spray, taser guns, and stun guns.

(e) "Police" refers to the employees of the Maldives Police Service who have taken the police oath.

(f) "Prison" refers to the custodial jails, remand jails, and general prisons determined under Article 4 of this Act.

(g) "Rehabilitation Center" refers to a place where persons who have to be kept and given special treatment in accordance with the principles of parole during the term of their sentence are detained.

(h) "Detention Center" refers to a center where persons who must be deported from the Maldives for violating Act No. 1/2007 (Maldives Immigration Act) which is in effect in the Maldives are detained in accordance with international treaties, in a manner determined by the Controller of Immigration and Emigration.

(i) "Prison Officer" refers to an employee appointed to work in that prison from among the officers of the Maldives Correctional Service mentioned in Article 17 of this Act, if it is a remand jail or a general prison.

(j) "Temporary release" refers to the release of an inmate from prison temporarily for a specified period in the situations mentioned in Article 115 of this Act. This does not include a release granted with the opportunity of parole.

(k) "Commissioner" refers to the Commissioner of Prisons appointed under Article 18 of this Act.

(l) "Director of Prisons" refers to a person appointed to each prison under Article 7 of this Act.

(m) "Inspector" refers to the Inspector of Correctional Service appointed under Article 9 of this Act.

(n) "Inmate" or "inmates" refers to persons who are serving a sentence from among the persons in prison.

(o) "Detainees" refers to persons detained on suspicion of a crime and persons who must be detained under a court order.

(p) "Parole" refers to the release of persons who have completed a specified portion of their sentence period from among the persons serving a sentence, under specific conditions, in order to reintegrate them into the community in a way that does not harm the safety of the community.

(q) "Sentence" refers to a sentence made by a court established in the Maldives under Act No. 22/2010 (Maldives Courts Act).

**Schedule 1**
**Oath of Prison Officers**

"I swear by Almighty Allah that I will remain steadfast in upholding the religion of Islam and the Constitution of the Republic of the Maldives with truthfulness and integrity, and that I will remain steadfast in performing the legal duty of fulfilling the responsibility of respectfully maintaining the human dignity of persons who must serve a sentence, and that I will remain steadfast in showing obedience to the state and its leaders, and that I will sacrifice my body and soul to protect the people from any danger that may arise from persons who are serving a sentence."

**Schedule 2**
**Security Classification Levels**

The security classification levels that must be determined to decide the extent to which a person will be supervised in his detention in a prison or a part of a prison and the area of the prison where he will be detained are stated below.

**Highest Security Classification Level**

The following persons will be in the highest security classification level.

1.  Persons who are reasonably believed to be at a very high risk of escaping from prison and whose escape would pose a very high risk to the safety of the community; and/or

2.  Persons who are reasonably believed to pose a very high risk to the safety of other inmates and prison officers in the prison.

**Medium Security Classification Level**

The following persons will be in the medium security classification level.

1.  Persons who are believed to be at risk of escaping from prison and whose escape would pose a risk to the safety of the community; and/or

2.  Persons who are believed to pose a risk to the safety of other inmates and prison officers in the prison.

**Lowest Security Classification Level**

The persons who are not included in the highest security classification level and the medium security classification level will be in the lowest security classification level.

**Schedule 3**
**Important Orders to be Implemented in Prison**

1.  Receiving inmates brought to prison and familiarizing them with the prison

2.  Determining security classification and determining the place of detention

3.  Determining a plan for serving the sentence and rehabilitation

4.  Feeding

5.  Medical treatment

6.  Maintaining contact with family and visiting the prison

7.  Writing and receiving letters

8.  Taking out of the place of detention and exercise

9.  Transporting inmates from one place to another

10. Releasing inmates from prison in special circumstances

11. Giving employment to inmates and making them work

12. Family sending things to inmates

13. Maintaining public order in the prison

14. Guarding the prison

15. Determining the duty of prison officers and staff

16. Determining the security level of the areas of the prison, determining the persons who can enter those places, and arranging it so that entry is not possible without a pass

17. Maintaining the cleanliness of the prison

18. Reducing the waste of water and electricity

19. Inspecting and repairing the places where inmates are kept

20. How to act in emergency situations

21. Seeking the assistance of special security officers, the police, and the military in emergency situations

22. Action to be taken in connection with a strike

23. Action to be taken against disobedient inmates

24. Action to be taken in connection with inmates fighting and damaging property

25. Carrying weapons and using handcuffs

26. Solitary confinement

27. How to deal with persons who escape from prison
