**MALDIVES PENAL CODE**
**(Law number 9/2014)**

This bill, titled the "Penal Code," was passed by the People's Majlis during its 5th sitting of the first session on Tuesday, 1st April 2014. In accordance with Article 92 of the Constitution, I have ratified this bill on Sunday, 13th April 2014 (13 Jumada al-Akhirah 1435 H). I have hereby published this bill in the Government Gazette.

---
**PART I: GENERAL PROVISIONS**

### CHAPTER 1: PRELIMINARY

**1. Introduction, citation and commencement**

(a) This Act provides for criminal offences, the standards for liability for such offences, the elements for proving such offences, the penalties for such offences, the manner in which offences and penalties are graded, matters that may be used in defence of an offence, and the principles for sentencing, and all other related principles.

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Maldives Penal Code."

(c) This Act shall come into force 12 months from the date of its passing, ratification, and publication in the Government Gazette.

(d) As a general rule, this Act shall not apply to an offence that occurred or was committed before this Act came into force. However, if the penalty prescribed in this Act for an offence that occurred or was committed before this Act came into force is less than the penalty prescribed in the previous law, the penalty for such an offence shall be determined in accordance with this Act.

**2. Rules of construction; general purposes**

(a) The sections of this Act shall be construed in accordance with the general meaning conveyed by their wording. However, if the wording of a section can be construed to have more than one meaning, that section shall be construed in a manner that achieves the general purposes stated in this section and the specific purposes included in the section to be construed. Discretionary powers granted under this Act shall be exercised in accordance with the standards set forth in this Act in relation to those powers. And if those standards are inherently insufficient, they shall be exercised in a manner that achieves the general purposes stated in this section.

(b) The general purpose of this Act is to establish a system for prohibiting acts that unlawfully or inexcusably cause harm or threaten to cause harm to individual interests and public interests, including religion, life, lineage, intellect, and property, and for prescribing penalties for such acts. In this manner, the purpose of the sections of this Act shall be, and the sections of this Act shall be construed, to achieve the following purposes:

(1) To prescribe a penalty that is proportionate to the culpability of the offender and the gravity of the offence committed;

(2) To safeguard against the conviction of conduct that is not an offence, and to ensure the conviction of conduct that is an offence;

(3) To prevent the cruel or unlawful treatment of persons accused or convicted of an offence;

(4) To define offences and grade them into different categories, to prescribe the level of punishment for offences, to provide fair warning of the nature of the conduct declared to be an offence and the consequences of its commission.

(c) Without prejudice to the purposes stated in subsection (b) of this section, maintaining the public interest by achieving the following is also a purpose of this Act:

(1) To maintain the general norms of society by prescribing appropriate punishment for acts that undermine them;

(2) To deter and reduce the commission of such offences through the penalties prescribed for them;

(3) To restrain, including through imprisonment, in order to prevent the recurrence of criminal acts.

(4) The general societal norms of the community referred to in subsection (1) of this section include the behavioural values generally accepted by the community.

**3. Abolition of offences not included in a statute**

(a) No conduct constitutes an offence unless it is so defined by this Act or by another statute of the Maldives.

**4. Jurisdiction**

(a) The State has jurisdiction to prosecute the following matters:

(1) (i) An offence where any conduct that is an element of the offence is committed in the Maldives; or

(ii) An offence where a result that is an element of the offence occurs in the Maldives; or

(iii) An inchoate offence, where an element of the conduct or an element of the result of the offence occurs in the Maldives; or

(iv) An inchoate offence involving the following elements:

(a) an act that is an element of such an offence is committed in the Maldives; and

(b) the place designated for the commission of the offence or for achieving the result of the offence is a country other than the Maldives; and

(c) if the act of the offence is completed in the country designated for its commission or for achieving its result, it would be considered an offence in that country, and if committed in the Maldives, it would also be considered an offence in the Maldives; and

(2) An offence where, as a result of the offence, harm is caused to Maldivian citizens, the State, State property, or entities enforcing the authority of the State, or an inchoate offence that is deemed likely to cause such harm to any such party; and

(3) An offence committed by a Maldivian citizen or in conjunction with a Maldivian citizen, or an offence committed by a person whose life is based in the Maldives, regardless of where the offence was committed; and

(4) Any offence that is a clear violation of international law, regardless of where the offence was committed and in which country the offenders' lives are based. And any type of offence over which the State has jurisdiction under an international treaty to which the Maldives is a party; and

(5) An offence committed against or on board a sea vessel or aircraft registered in the Maldives or flying the Maldivian flag.

(b) Proving that the State has jurisdiction over an offence is not an element of that offence. It is a standard that must be ascertained for the State to exercise its power to prosecute an offence. It is not the responsibility of the prosecution to prove the degree of the defendant's culpability by comparing it with the standards used to determine whether the State has jurisdiction.

(c) This section shall not affect the power of a court to punish for contempt of court, nor the power of a court to enforce an order or a civil judgment in a manner permitted by law.

(d) Unless expressly stated otherwise in an international treaty to which the Maldives is a party, the non-extradition of a defendant by the State to another country is not a valid defence in a prosecution against that defendant.

(e) (1) "The Maldives" refers to the land, sea, and the airspace above the land and sea under the jurisdiction of the Government of the Maldives, and the economic zone, territorial sea, inhabited islands, and uninhabited islands as defined in international treaties and law.

(2) "The State" refers to the entities that exercise the powers of the State in the Maldives as defined in the Constitution of the Republic of the Maldives.

(f) The Maldives has the authority to enforce criminal law in the Special Economic Zone of the Maldives in accordance with international treaties to which the Maldives is a party, for the purpose of exploring, conserving, protecting, and making the best use of the natural resources within the economic zone of the Maldives.

In cases where the Maldives has the authority to enforce this Act in accordance with international treaties to which the Maldives is a party, for offences committed within the Special Economic Zone of the Maldives, the definition of "the Maldives" in this section shall include the area designated as the Special Economic Zone of the Maldives in international treaties, agreements, and laws to which the Maldives is a party. And in sentencing for offences committed in such circumstances, regard shall be had to the international treaties and agreements to which the Maldives is a party.

**5. Preservation of civil remedies**

(a) This Act does not bar or diminish any right or obligation to seek damages, impose a penalty, seize property, recover any item that should be returned, or enforce any other matter in a civil action in a manner permitted by law, in connection with any act for which a penalty is prescribed in this Act. And in defining offences in this Act, the civil damages of the offence are not included.

**6. Burden of proof; presumptions**

(a) No person shall be convicted of an offence unless each element of the offence is proven beyond a reasonable doubt. In circumstances where there is no evidence to that standard, the defendant shall be presumed innocent of the offence.

(b) (1) The burden of proof lies with the person who must prove a matter, and if that burden is not met, the matter will be decided against that person.

(2) Unless expressly stated otherwise in this Act, the prosecution shall bear the burden of proving the following:

(i) to prove all elements of the offence beyond a reasonable doubt;

(ii) to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that all exceptional circumstances, all non-affirmative defences, and all circumstances that would render the conduct not an offence do not apply to the charged offence; and

(iii) to prove, by the preponderance of all available evidence, all other evidence and circumstances necessary to establish the culpability of the defendant in the charged offence.

(c) Unless expressly stated otherwise in this Act, it is the responsibility of the defendant to prove, by the preponderance of all available evidence, every element included in every affirmative defence that may be raised.

(d) Unless proven otherwise, in circumstances where this Act states that a matter shall be presumed in a certain way, if the points included in that matter are proven, the court shall presume that the charge has been proven. This is unless the opposing party proves otherwise by the preponderance of all available evidence.

(e) "Affirmative defence" refers to any defence stated in Chapter 30, Chapter 40, and Chapter 50 of this Act.

**7. Duty of the People's Majlis to review monetary amounts**

(a) The People's Majlis shall, at least once every 4 years, review the monetary amounts stated in this Act to determine whether changes are necessary in relation to changes in the price of goods and services, and shall make any necessary changes.

(b) Unless changed by the People's Majlis, the monetary amounts stated in this Act shall remain as they are.

**8. Definitions**

(a) Unless the context in which a phrase is used requires a different interpretation:

(1) "Accomplices" is given the meaning provided in section 40(b) of this Act.

(2) "Acquittal" refers to a judgment of not guilty, a judgment of not being culpable of the offence, or a judgment of insufficient evidence to prove the offence, as a result of a prosecuted charge.

(3) "Attempt" is given the meaning provided in section 80(a) of this Act.

(4) "Automatic firearm" is given the meaning provided in section 710(d)(1) of this Act.

(5) "Automatic loading" is given the meaning provided in section 710(d)(2) of this Act.

(6) "Benefit" is given the meaning provided in section 315(b) of this Act.

(7) "Bodily injury" refers to physical pain, illness, and any impairment of any physical part of the body.

(8) "Catastrophe" is given the meaning provided in section 222(b) of this Act.

(9) "Causing a catastrophe" is given the meaning provided in section 121(c)(1) of this Act.

(10) "Circumstantial element" is given the meaning provided in section 21(b)(2) of this Act.

(11) "Clear and convincing evidence" refers to a standard of evidence that is higher than the standard of preponderance of the evidence required for a conviction, but lower than the standard of proof beyond a reasonable doubt.

(12) "Close relative" is given the meaning provided in section 413(d) of this Act.

(13) "Communication" is given the meaning provided in section 231(d) of this Act.

(14) "Conduct element" is given the meaning provided in section 21(b)(1) of this Act.

(15) "Consent" is given the meaning provided in section 27 of this Act.

(16) "Consequence" is given the meaning provided in section 32(b) of this Act.

(17) "Conviction" refers to a determination in a judgment of guilt in a prosecuted charge. And for that judgment not to have been altered, vacated, or for a person to plead guilty to an offence and for that plea to be accepted by the court.

(18) "Agent" is given the meaning provided in section 70(c)(4) of this Act.

(19) "Corporation" is given the meaning provided in section 70(c)(1) of this Act.

(20) "Correctional facility officer" is given the meaning provided in section 538(b) of this Act.

(21) "Correctional facility" is given the meaning provided in section 537(b)(2) of this Act.

(22) "Criminal street gang" is given the meaning provided in section 720(b)(1) of this Act.

(23) "Custodian of a detention facility" is given the meaning provided in section 532(b) of this Act.

(24) "Dangerous weapon" is given the meaning provided in section 120(d)(1) of this Act.

(25) "Deception" is given the meaning provided in section 212(b)(2) of this Act.

(26) "Deemed use of excessive force" is given the meaning provided in section 45(c)(2) of this Act.

(27) "Duress" is given the meaning provided in section 55 of this Act.

(28) "Dwelling" is given the meaning provided in section 230(d)(1) of this Act.

(29) "Elements" is given the meaning provided in section 21(a) of this Act.

(30) "Exclusive Economic Zone of the Maldives" is given the meaning provided in section 614(c) of this Act.

(31) "Excuse" and "Excused" are given the meaning provided in section 50(a) of this Act.

(32) "Explosive" is given the meaning provided in section 121(c)(2) of this Act.

(33) "Fiduciary interest" is given the meaning provided in section 215(c)(3) of this Act.

(34) "Financial institution" is given the meaning provided in section 215(c)(1) of this Act.

(35) "Financial instrument" is given the meaning provided in section 212(b)(3) of this Act.

(36) "Fiduciary" is given the meaning provided in section 215(c)(2) of this Act.

(37) "Financial transaction" is given the meaning provided in section 721(b)(1) of this Act.

(38) "Firearm" is given the meaning provided in section 710(d)(4) of this Act.

(39) "Force" refers to restraining a person in a way that prevents them from moving to another place, and includes confinement, the use of physical force in a manner that could cause bodily harm, the threat of using such force, the threat of causing injury, and includes confinement or restraining a person in a way that prevents them from moving to another place, creating a sense of fear of bodily harm.

(40) "Freedom of movement" is given the meaning provided in section 140(b)(2) of this Act.

(41) "Government agent" is given the meaning provided in section 533(b) of this Act.

(42) "Affirmative defence" is given the meaning provided in section 15(d) of this Act.

(43) A word used in the masculine gender includes the feminine, and a word used in the feminine gender includes the masculine.

(44) "High managerial agent" is given the meaning provided in section 70(c)(3) of this Act.

(45) "Highly secured information" is given the meaning provided in section 232(c)(1) of this Act.

(46) "Highly secured premises" is given the meaning provided in section 230(d)(2) of this Act.

(47) "House" is given the meaning provided in section 120(d)(2) of this Act.

(48) "House arrest" refers to a punishment where a convicted person is confined to their residence, prohibited from leaving its premises.

(49) "Inchoate offence" refers to an offence defined in section 80, section 81, and section 82 of this Act.

(50) "Incompetent" is given the meaning provided in section 27(d) of this Act.

(51) "Inhabited structure" is given the meaning provided in section 221(b) of this Act.

(52) "Instrument of crime" is given the meaning provided in section 87(b) of this Act.

(53) "Intoxication" is given the meaning provided in section 31(d) of this Act.

(54) "Involuntary intoxication" is given the meaning provided in section 54(b) of this Act.

(55) "Contraband" is given the meaning provided in section 539(b) of this Act.

(56) "Justification" and "justified" are given the meaning provided in section 40(a) of this Act.

(57) "Knowingly" or "knowing" is given the meaning provided in section 24(d) of this Act.

(58) "Lashing" is given the meaning provided in section 411(e)(3) of this Act.

(59) "Law enforcement officer" is given the meaning provided in section 521(d) of this Act.

(60) "Legal guardian" is given the meaning provided in section 44(b) of this Act.

(61) "The Maldives" is given the meaning provided in section 13(e)(1) of this Act.

(62) "Material support" is given the meaning provided in section 720(b)(2) of this Act.

(63) "Mercenary" is given the meaning provided in section 611(b) of this Act.

(64) "Minor" refers to any child who has not reached the age of 18.

(65) "Person with minor role" is given the meaning provided in section 30(d)(3)(ii) of this Act.

(66) "Monetary instrument" is given the meaning provided in section 721(b)(2) of this Act.

(67) "Necessary circumstances" is given the meaning provided in section 41(b) of this Act.

(68) "Negligently" is given the meaning provided in section 24(e) of this Act.

(69) "Procedural defence" is given the meaning provided in section 60(a) of this Act.

(70) "Culpability element" is given the meaning provided in section 21(b)(4) of this Act.

(71) "Obscene" is given the meaning provided in section 622(d) of this Act.

(72) "Offender" refers to any person who has been convicted of an offence.

(73) "Official capacity" is given the meaning provided in section 510(c) of this Act.

(74) "Official proceeding" is given the meaning provided in section 520(e) of this Act.

(75) "Organizer" and "Leader" are given the meaning provided in section 30(d)(3)(i) of this Act.

(76) "Owner" is given the meaning provided in section 216(b) of this Act.

(77) "Official custody" is given the meaning provided in section 537(b)(1) of this Act.

(78) "Person" refers to a human being born alive, and includes publicly traded corporations, privately held corporations, the government, partnerships, and unincorporated associations.

(79) "Iddat of a woman" is given the meaning provided in section 410(b)(1) of this Act.

(80) "Preponderance of all available evidence" refers to a standard of evidence lower than clear and convincing evidence, and by this standard, a matter is proven if the available evidence shows it is more likely to be true than false.

(81) "Personal identifying information" is given the meaning provided in section 232(c)(2) of this Act.

(82) "Property" refers to anything of value, including real and personal property, tangible and intangible property. It includes goods and services, rights over various properties, powers and control arising from property, powers and rights granted under a contract, rights to access communications or facilities or information or various services, and includes animals that are captured or tamed, and official documents indicating a right to property. It includes tickets, land deeds, various ownership documents, and permits.

(83) "Property of another" is given the meaning provided in section 211(b) of this Act.

(84) "Purposefully" is given the meaning provided in section 24(c) of this Act.

(85) "Pyramid sales scheme" is given the meaning provided in section 319(b) of this Act.

(86) "Proof beyond a reasonable doubt" refers to proof by the highest standard of evidence. This standard means that there is no room for any unreasonable doubt as to the truth of the matter to be proven.

(87) "Recklessly," "reckless act," or "reckless" is given the meaning provided in section 24(b) of this Act.

(88) "Restrain" is given the meaning provided in section 140(b)(1) of this Act.

(89) "Result element" is given the meaning provided in section 21(b)(3) of this Act.

(90) "Semi-automatic firearm" is given the meaning provided in section 710(d)(5) of this Act.

(91) "Serious bodily injury" refers to death, risk of death, or permanent impairment, damage, or disfigurement to a part or organ of a person's body.

(92) "Service" is given the meaning provided in section 214(b) of this Act.

(93) "Sexual act" is given the meaning provided in section 131(b) of this Act.

(94) "Adultery (Zina)" is given the meaning provided in section 130(e) of this Act.

(95) "The State" is given the meaning provided in section 13(e)(2) of this Act.

(96) "Storage facility" is given the meaning provided in section 230(d)(3) of this Act.

(97) "Strict liability" refers to the meaning provided in section 24(f) of this Act.

(98) "Suitable steps" is given the meaning provided in section 80(b) of this Act.

(99) "Substantive offence" refers to any offence not included in the inchoate offences stated in Chapter 80 of this Act.

(100) "Suicide" is given the meaning provided in section 113(c) of this Act.

(101) "Deal in" is given the meaning provided in section 220(b) of this Act.

(102) "Temporary use" is given the meaning provided in section 217(b) of this Act.

(103) "Unincorporated association" is given the meaning provided in section 70(c)(2) of this Act.

(104) "Unjustified use of force" is given the meaning provided in section 45(c)(1) of this Act.

(105) "Unlawful possession" is given the meaning provided in section 23(b) of this Act.

(106) "Value" is given the meaning provided in section 210(d) of this Act.

(107) "Violent offence" is given the meaning provided in section 110(b) of this Act.

(108) "Vital public facility" is given the meaning provided in section 221(d) of this Act.

(109) "Voluntary intoxication" refers to the meaning provided in section 31(c) of this Act.

(110) "Written instrument" is given the meaning provided in section 310(b) of this Act.

**9. Repealed Acts**

(a) Upon the commencement of this Act, Law number 1/81 (Maldives Penal Code Chapter 1), Law number 21/81 (Maldives Penal Code Chapter 2), Law number 1/66 (Maldives Penal Code Chapter 3), and Law number 10/68 (Maldives Penal Code Chapter 4) are repealed.

(b) In addition to the parts of the law repealed in subsection (a) of this section, upon the commencement of this Act, if there is any conflict between an offence and its related principle defined in this Act and an offence or its related principle defined in another law or part of a law, this Act shall prevail.

(c) Among the laws and parts of laws, other than this Act, that define criminal offences, the Government shall compile a list of laws and parts of laws that conflict with this Act and require repeal or amendment, and shall submit such a list to the People's Majlis 6 months before the date of commencement of this Act as stated in section 1(c) of this Act, and the People's Majlis shall decide on the course of action regarding such laws and parts of laws.

### CHAPTER 20: GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF CRIMINAL LIABILITY AND DEFENCES RELATED TO CULPABILITY AND HARM

**20. Basis of criminal liability**

(a) Unless otherwise stated in another section of this chapter, a person is liable for an offence only if:

(1) his conduct includes all the elements specified in the definition of the offence, or if not all elements are completed, all the incomplete elements are attributed to him under a section of Chapter 30 of this Act; and

(2) the conditions required for the application of the offence to an exception stated to absolve from liability are not met; and

(3) the conditions required for the application of the offence to any of the defences stated in the first part of this Act are not met.

**21. Elements of an offence**

(a) The elements of an offence are as follows:

(1) The elements relating to the objective of the offence are:

(i) the conduct of the offender; or

(ii) the circumstances; or

(iii) the result of the conduct; and

(2) In accordance with the definition of the offence or the section defining the grade of the offence, the "culpability elements" as stated in section 24 of this Act, under the heading "culpability elements."

(b) (1) "Conduct element" refers to a part of the definition of an offence that describes the conduct a person must perform or omit to perform in order to commit that offence.

(2) "Circumstantial element" refers to a part of the definition of an offence that relates to an objective element of the offence, other than a conduct element or a result element, when defining the offence.

(3) "Result element" refers to a part of the definition of an offence that describes the change in circumstances caused by a person's conduct, when defining the offence.

(4) The "objective elements" of an offence include the conduct element, the circumstantial element, and the result element when defining the offence. However, the objective elements do not include the culpability elements of the offence.

**22. Causation**

(a) The result of a person's conduct is considered the result of that conduct in the following circumstances:

(1) the result would not have occurred without the specific conduct of the person; and

(2) the result is not so remote or accidental in its occurrence as to have a bearing on the defendant's liability or on the gravity of his offence that it is fair to hold him liable for the result, and is not too remote from his conduct in its occurrence, and is not too dependent on another person's voluntary act.

(b) Where a specific result occurs as a result of the separate conduct of two or more persons, and it is possible that the result would have occurred as a result of the conduct of any one of them, the conduct of each of them shall be considered to fall within the circumstances stated in subsection (a)(1) of this section.

**23. Culpability from conduct; possession as an act; omission as an act**

(a) Liability for an offence may be based solely on conduct. The meaning of such conduct includes acts, unlawful possession of an item, or the omission to perform a duty imposed by law.

(b) A person is liable for an offence based on possession of an item only if he knowingly performs one of the following acts:

(1) possesses an item that he has procured or received; or

(2) possesses an item and has had a reasonable opportunity to terminate his possession.

(c) Where the result of an omission is defined as an offence, a person is liable for that offence in the following circumstances:

(1) the result was caused by his failure to perform a required act, as stated in section 22 of this Act; and

(2) the act he omitted to perform was a legal duty imposed on him by law; and

(3) all other elements defined as elements of the offence are satisfied.

**24. Culpability elements**

(a) A defendant shall not be convicted of the charged offence unless a culpability element is proven for each objective element of the offence.

(b) The culpability element, when the conduct is considered an offence, must be present at the time of the conduct.

(c) A person acts purposefully when he performs the following acts in the following circumstances:

(1) if the element involves the nature of his conduct or a result thereof, it is his conscious object to engage in conduct of that nature or to cause such a result;

(2) if the element involves the attendant circumstances, he is aware of the existence of such circumstances or he believes or hopes that they exist;

(3) a person who acts with the purpose of committing an offence based on the fulfilment of a certain matter or a certain circumstance is also included within the scope of purpose as stated in this section. This is, however, unless it cannot be proven that the person did not have the purpose of causing harm prohibited by the law defining the offence with which he is charged, or of committing an act prohibited by that law.

(d) A person acts knowingly when he performs the following acts in the following circumstances:

(1) if the element involves the nature of his conduct, he is aware that his conduct is of that nature or of such a type;

(2) if the element involves the attendant circumstances, he is aware of a high probability of their existence;

(3) if the element involves a result of his conduct, he is aware that it is practically certain that his conduct will cause such a result.

(e) A person acts recklessly with respect to an objective element of an offence in the following circumstances:

(1) he consciously disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that the objective element exists or will result from his conduct; and

(2) the risk he disregarded, considering the nature and purpose of his conduct and the circumstances known to him, is of such a nature and degree that its disregard involves a gross deviation from the standard of conduct that a law-abiding person would observe in his situation.

(f) A person acts negligently with respect to an objective element of an offence in the following circumstances:

(1) he should be aware of a substantial and unjustifiable risk that the objective element exists or will result from his conduct;

(2) his failure to perceive the risk, considering the nature and purpose of his conduct and the circumstances known to him, involves a gross deviation from the standard of care that a reasonable person would observe in his situation.

(g) If a higher degree of culpability is established, the lower degrees are also established. The standards for establishing culpability are as follows:

(1) if purpose is established, knowledge is also established;

(2) if purpose or knowledge is established, recklessness is also established;

(3) if purpose, knowledge, or recklessness is established, negligence is also established.

(h) When the culpability sufficient to establish a material element of an offence is not prescribed by the law defining the offence or by the section defining the grade of the offence, the minimum requirement for establishing the culpability with respect to that element is proof that the person acted recklessly.

(i) In a case of strict liability with respect to an objective element of an offence, proving culpability as stated in subsection (h) of this section is not a required standard for proving the following offences:

(1) if the offence is a violation; or

(2) if the offence is defined in a law other than this Act, and the purpose of the law in defining the offence is to establish only another main element of the offence, without requiring proof of culpability, and this is clearly indicated by the law defining the offence.

(j) If the definition of an offence prescribes a specific culpability standard required to prove that offence, that standard must also be met in proving all other elements of that offence. In other cases, the culpability must be proven to the extent indicated by the wording of the law in defining that offence.

(k) Unless otherwise expressly provided by law, in proving an offence, proving that a person knew his conduct was an offence is not an element of that offence.

**25. Culpability negated by ignorance or mistake**

(a) Except in the circumstances stated in section 33 of this Act, evidence of a defendant's ignorance or mistake as to a matter of fact or law is admissible to negate the culpability required for the offence.

**26. Culpability negated by mental disease or defect**

(a) Evidence that the defendant suffered from a mental disease or defect is admissible to negate the culpability required for the offence.

(b) "Mental disease or defect" refers to any abnormal condition of the mind that substantially affects mental or emotional processes and that substantially impairs behaviour controls.

**27. Consent**

(a) The consent of the victim to conduct charged to constitute an offence or to the result thereof is a defence in the following circumstances:

(1) the consent negates an element of the offence; or

(2) the consent is given before the conduct or the harm prohibited by the law defining the offence.

(b) The consent of the victim to bodily injury is a defence in the following circumstances:

(1) the bodily injury consented to or threatened by the conduct is not serious; or

(2) the conduct and the injury are reasonably foreseeable hazards of joint participation in a lawful athletic contest or competitive sport.

(c) Unless otherwise provided in this Act, or unless otherwise provided in the law defining the charged offence, an agreement to a matter is not considered consent in the following circumstances:

(1) the person against whom the conduct constituting the offence was directed is not legally capable of giving such consent; or

(2) the person against whom the conduct constituting the offence was directed is known by the actor to be unable to make a reasonable judgment as to the nature or harmfulness of the conduct; or

(3) the consent is not given with a full understanding of the matter as defined in the law defining the offence; or

(4) the consent is induced by force, duress, or deception of a kind not permitted by the law defining the offence.

(d) A person is "incompetent" if, by reason of his age, mental disease, mental defect, or intoxication, or any other disability, he is unable to make a reasonable and informed judgment on the matter.

**28. De minimis infractions**

(a) The court shall dismiss a prosecution if, having regard to the nature of the conduct charged to constitute an offence and the nature of the attendant circumstances, it finds the defendant's conduct:

(1) was within a customary license or tolerance, not expressly negatived by the person whose interest was infringed and not inconsistent with the purpose of the law defining the offence; or

(2) did not actually cause or threaten the harm or evil sought to be prevented by the law defining the offence or did so only to an extent too trivial to warrant the condemnation of a conviction; or

(3) presents such other extenuations that it cannot reasonably be regarded as envisaged by the legislature in forbidding the offence.

(b) The court shall not dismiss a prosecution under this section without filing a written statement of its reasons.

**29. Definitions**

(a) "Bodily injury" is given the meaning provided in section 17(7) of this Act.

(b) "Circumstantial element" is given the meaning provided in section 21(b)(2) of this Act.

(c) "Conduct element" is given the meaning provided in section 21(b)(1) of this Act.

(d) "Incompetent" is given the meaning provided in section 27(d) of this Act.

(e) "Knowingly" is given the meaning provided in section 24(d) of this Act.

(f) "Negligently" is given the meaning provided in section 24(e) of this Act.

(g) "Culpability element" is given the meaning provided in section 21(b)(4) of this Act.

(h) "Purposefully" is given the meaning provided in section 24(c) of this Act.

(i) "Recklessly" is given the meaning provided in section 24(b) of this Act.

(j) "Result element" is given the meaning provided in section 21(b)(3) of this Act.

(k) "Serious bodily injury" is given the meaning provided in section 17(91) of this Act.

### CHAPTER 30: ATTRIBUTION OF ELEMENTS OF AN OFFENCE

**30. Liability for the conduct of another**

(a) A person is legally accountable for the conduct of another person in the following circumstances:

(1) Acting with the culpability sufficient for the commission of an offence, he causes an innocent or irresponsible person to engage in such conduct; or

(2) He is made accountable for the conduct of such other person by this Act or by the law defining the offence; or

(3) He is an accomplice of such other person in the commission of the offence.

(b) A person is an accomplice of another person in the commission of an offence if, with the purpose of promoting or facilitating the commission of the offence, he:

(1) knowingly aids such other person to commit it; or

(2) is expressly declared by law to be an accomplice.

(c) Unless otherwise provided by this Act or by the law defining the offence, a person is not an accomplice in an offence committed by another person if:

(1) he is a victim of that offence; or

(2) his conduct, though a cause of the offence as defined by the law, was not voluntary; or

(3) he terminates his complicity prior to the commission of the offence and

(i) wholly deprives it of its effectiveness in the commission of the offence; or

(ii) gives timely warning to the law enforcement authorities or otherwise makes a proper effort to prevent the commission of the offence.

(d) When the liability of an accomplice may be based on his role, the role of an accomplice is graded as follows:

(1) If he is the organizer or leader of the act, his degree of liability shall be the degree of the offence he aided in committing.

(2) If he is merely an accomplice in the commission of the offence, his degree of liability shall be one degree lower than the degree of the offence he aided in committing.

(3) If he has a minor role in the commission of the offence, his degree of liability shall be two degrees lower than the degree of the offence he aided in committing.

(4) For the purpose of this section:

(i) "Organizer" or "leader" refers to the person who has the responsibility of supervising and controlling the other accomplices in the commission of the offence.

(ii) "Person with a minor role" refers to a person who provides assistance of a kind that is of little use or of a very small amount in the successful completion of the offence.

(iii) "Accomplice" refers to a person whose role in aiding the commission of the offence is less than that of the organizer or leader, but greater than that of a person with a minor role.

(e) A person who is legally incapable of committing a particular offence himself may be guilty thereof if it is committed by the conduct of another person for which he is legally accountable, unless such liability is inconsistent with the purpose of the provision establishing his incapacity.

(f) An accomplice may be convicted on proof of the commission of the offence and of his complicity therein, though the person claimed to have committed the offence has not been prosecuted or has not been convicted or has been convicted of a different offence or degree of offence or has an immunity to prosecution or conviction or has been acquitted.

**31. Voluntary intoxication**

(a) Except as provided in section 54 of this Act, or as provided in subsection (b) of this section, evidence of a defendant's intoxication at the time of the commission of an offence is a defence that negates the culpability required for the offence.

(b) When recklessness establishes an element of an offence, if the actor, due to self-induced intoxication, is unaware of a risk of which he would have been aware had he been sober, such unawareness is immaterial.

(c) A person is intoxicated in the following circumstances:

(1) he knowingly introduces into his body a substance that causes intoxication, and is reckless as to whether it will cause intoxication. This is unless the substance was introduced into his body on medical advice or in a legally justified circumstance or in a circumstance of an excused defence.

(2) even if the amount of intoxicant he used was not relatively large, he was unaware that that amount could cause him to be intoxicated to the extent he was, or that given his physical condition, that amount of intoxicant could cause him to be so intoxicated, and he had no reasonable way of knowing.

(d) "Intoxication" refers to a disturbance of mental or physical faculties resulting from the introduction of substances into the body.

**32. Culpability as to the result when the intended result and the actual result differ**

(a) When causing a particular result is a material element of an offence for which absolute liability is imposed by law, the element is not established if the actual result is not within the purpose or the contemplation of the actor, or is not foreseen, unless:

(1) the actual result differs from that designed or contemplated, as the case may be, only in the respect that a different person or different property is injured or affected or that the injury or harm designed or contemplated would have been more serious or more extensive than that caused; or

(2) the actual result involves the same kind of injury or harm as that designed or contemplated and is not too remote or accidental in its occurrence to have a bearing on the actor's liability or on the gravity of his offence.

(b) "Result" refers to the result element among the elements of the offence, and to the elements that describe the result among the circumstantial elements.

**33. Mistake as to the nature of the offence**

(a) A defendant does not have the benefit of the defence provided in section 25 of this Act if, had the situation been as he supposed, his conduct would have constituted an offence of the same or of a higher grade than the offence charged.

**34. Definitions**

(a) "Result" is given the meaning provided in section 32(b) of this Act.

(b) "Intoxication" is given the meaning provided in section 40(d) of this Act.

(c) "Person with a minor role" is given the meaning provided in section 41(d)(3)(ii) of this Act.

(d) "Organizer" and "leader" are given the meaning provided in section 41(d)(3)(i) of this Act.

(e) "Accomplice" is given the meaning provided in section 41(d)(3)(iii) of this Act.

### CHAPTER 40: JUSTIFICATION

**40. General principles relating to justification**

(a) "Justification" or "justified" refers to any defence defined in this chapter.

(b) Unless otherwise provided in this Act, a person shall not prevent the justified conduct of another; nor shall he interfere with it except in a manner permitted by law.

(c) The fact that a defendant created the conditions of his own justification is not a bar to his conduct being justified. However, he may be liable for such conduct under subsection (d) of this section.

(d) (1) Notwithstanding subsection (c) of this section, when the defendant, with the purpose of causing harm or evil, creates the conditions of his own justification under this section, he commits an offence.

(2) Any affirmative defence may be used in connection with the liability to be borne under subsection (d)(1) of this section.

(e) Except as provided in subsection (f) of this section, if the defendant's conduct is justified under more than one section of this chapter, all such justifications may be used by him.

(f) In circumstances where the defence raised is expressly defined in another section of this chapter as a justification, or where a specific justification among the justifications is stated in a way that suggests that the defences provided in section 30 and section 41 of this Act cannot be used, the defences provided in section 30 and section 41 of this Act shall not be used.

**41. Justification generally: choice of evils**

(a) Conduct that the actor believes to be necessary to avoid a harm or evil to himself or to another is justifiable, provided that:

(1) the harm or evil sought to be avoided by such conduct is greater than that sought to be prevented by the law defining the offence charged; and

(2) a legislative purpose to exclude the justification claimed does not otherwise plainly appear.

(b) "Necessary circumstances" or "use of force" refers to the following circumstances:

(1) the conduct engaged in to avoid the threatened harm or evil was not such that the opportunity to avoid it would be lost if the conduct were delayed; and

(2) the threatened harm or evil could not have been avoided by less harmful conduct than that engaged in.

**42. Justification in the execution of public duty**

(a) Conduct is justifiable when it is required or authorized by:

(1) the law defining the duties or functions of a public officer or the assistance to be rendered to such officer in the performance of his duties; or

(2) the law governing the armed services or the lawful conduct of war; or

(3) the judgment or order of a competent court or tribunal; or

(4) the law governing the armed services or the lawful conduct of war; or

(5) any other provision of law imposing a public duty.

**43. Justification in the use of force in law enforcement**

(a) Without prejudice to the principles stated in subsection (b) of this section, conduct is justifiable in the following circumstances:

(1) in making or assisting in making an arrest; or

(2) in preventing the escape from custody of an arrested person; or

(3) in preventing a suicide.

(b) The use of deadly force or force that could cause serious bodily injury is justifiable in the circumstances stated in subsection (a) of this section only if such conduct is necessary to prevent the death or serious bodily injury of others.

**44. Justification in the use of force by persons with special responsibility for care, discipline or safety of others**

(a) The use of force is justified in the following circumstances and by the following persons:

(1) The actor is the parent or legal guardian or other person similarly responsible for the general care and supervision of a minor or a person acting at the request of such parent, guardian or other responsible person and:

(i) the force is used for the purpose of safeguarding or promoting the welfare of the minor, including the prevention or punishment of his misconduct; and

(ii) the force used is not designed to cause or known to create a substantial risk of causing death, serious bodily injury, disfigurement, extreme pain or mental distress or gross degradation; or

(2) The actor is a doctor or other therapist or a person assisting him at his direction, and:

(i) the force is used for the purpose of administering a recognized form of treatment which the actor believes to be adapted to promoting the physical or mental health of the patient; and

(ii) the treatment is administered:

(a) with the consent of the patient; or

(b) with the consent of his parent or guardian or other person legally competent to consent in his behalf, or under circumstances of necessity where such consent cannot be obtained; or

(c) in circumstances of necessity where the treatment is administered for the purpose of safeguarding or promoting his health and the actor has no reason to believe that the patient would withhold his consent.

(3) The actor is a warden or other authorized official of a correctional institution, and:

(i) he has acted in accordance with the lawful rules or regulations of the institution; and

(ii) the force is used only to the extent necessary to enforce such rules or regulations; or

(4) The actor is a person responsible for the safety of a vessel or an aircraft or a vehicle, or is acting at his direction, and:

(i) the force is used for the purpose of preventing interference with the operation of the vessel, aircraft or vehicle, or for the purpose of maintaining good order and discipline on board; and

(ii) the force used is not designed to cause or known to create a substantial risk of causing death or serious bodily injury.

(b) (1) "Legal guardian" refers to a person who has the legal responsibility to make various decisions on behalf of a person who is legally incompetent.

(2) "Authorized medical practitioner" refers to a person who is licensed by the government in accordance with its regulations or by a generally accepted medical institution as having the competence to practice medicine.

**45. Justification in self-defence**

(a) Without prejudice to the principles stated in subsection (b) of this section, the use of force is justifiable when the actor believes that such force is immediately necessary for the purpose of protecting himself against the use of unlawful force by such other person on the present occasion.

(b) The use of force involving deadly force or force that could cause serious bodily injury is justifiable under this section only if the actor believes that such force is necessary to protect himself against death, serious bodily injury, forcible rape or kidnapping.

(c) (1) The use of force is not justifiable in the following circumstances:

(i) the conduct falls within the objective elements of an offence defined in Part 5 of this Act; and

(ii) the conduct does not fall within a defence defined in this chapter.

(2) The use of excessive force is deemed to have occurred when, in the judgment of a reasonable person, the force used was not proportionate.

**46. Justification in the defence of property**

(a) Without prejudice to the principles stated in subsection (b) of this section, the use of force is justifiable when the actor believes that such force is immediately necessary:

(1) to prevent or terminate an unlawful entry or other trespass upon land or to prevent the carrying away or destruction of tangible, movable property, provided that such land or movable property is in his possession or in the possession of another for whose protection he acts; and

(2) the force used is not disproportionate to the threatened harm.

(b) The use of deadly force or force that could cause serious bodily injury is not justifiable under this section unless the actor believes that such force is necessary to prevent the commission of arson, burglary, robbery or other felonious theft or property destruction and either:

**47. Definitions**

(a) "Custodian of a detention facility" is given the meaning provided in section 532(b) of this Act, under the heading "Custodian of a detention facility."

(b) "Deemed use of excessive force" is given the meaning provided in section 32(c)(2) of this Act.

(c) "Incompetent" is given the meaning provided in section 27(d) of this Act.

(d) "Justification" and "justified" are given the meaning provided in section 40(a) of this Act.

(e) "Necessary circumstances" and "use of force" are given the meaning provided in section 41(b) of this Act.

(f) "Government agent" is given the meaning provided in section 533(b) of this Act.

(g) "Serious bodily injury" is given the meaning provided in section 17(91) of this Act.

(h) "Unjustified" is given the meaning provided in section 45(c)(1) of this Act.

### CHAPTER 50: EXCUSE

**50. General principles relating to excuse**

(a) "Excuse" or "excused" refers to any defence defined in this chapter.

(b) Unless otherwise provided in this Act, the fact that a person is excused for his unlawful conduct is a defence that may be withheld from him in a manner permitted by law.

(c) A person who merely aids another person who has the benefit of an excused defence does not have the benefit of that defence.

(d) The fact that a defendant created the conditions of his own excused defence is not a bar to his conduct being excused. However, he may be liable for such conduct under subsection (e) of this section.

(e) (1) Notwithstanding subsection (d) of this section, when the defendant, with the purpose of causing harm or evil, creates the conditions of his own excused defence, he commits an offence.

(2) Any affirmative defence may be used in connection with the liability to be borne under subsection (e)(1) of this section.

(f) Unless otherwise provided in this Act, the fact that a person mistakenly believes that his conduct is excused is not a defence.

**51. Involuntary act and omission**

(a) A person is excused for an offence he has committed if:

(1) the act he committed was not a product of his own volition or his own determination; or

(2) the act he omitted to perform was one which he was physically or mentally unable to perform, or if the performance of the omitted act could not reasonably be expected of him in the circumstances.

**52. Mental disease or defect**

(a) A person who, at the time of his conduct, as a result of mental disease or defect, lacked substantial capacity either to appreciate the criminality of his conduct or to conform his conduct to the requirements of law, is excused for that offence.

(b) For the purposes of subsection (a) of this section, the terms "mental disease or defect" do not include an abnormality manifested only by repeated criminal or otherwise antisocial conduct.

(c) A person acquitted and released under this section is a person who must be referred to a mental health facility or a centre for the treatment of mental disorders for the purpose of ascertaining whether he should be committed to such a facility. The period for such referral and assessment shall not exceed 60 days. The period shall be the shorter of the time required for the medical assessment and 60 days.

**53. Immaturity**

(a) A person is excused for an offence he has committed if, at the time of the offence, he was in one of the following circumstances:

(1) he did not have the capacity of a mature person; and

(2) as a result of such incapacity, he was unable to:

(i) appreciate the nature and consequences of his conduct; or

(ii) appreciate the wrongfulness of his conduct; or

(iii) control his conduct.

(b) (1) A child who has not reached the age of 15 at the time of the offence is presumed to have the full benefit of the excused defence.

(2) Unless proven otherwise under section 6 of this Act, a child who has not reached the age of 18 at the time of the offence is presumed to have the benefit of the excused defence.

(3) Unless the person proves otherwise, a person who has reached the age of 18 at the time of the offence is presumed to be a mature person.

(c) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of this section, children who have not reached the age of 18 at the time of the offence and who have the benefit of the excused defence shall be held liable for offences for which a hadd is prescribed in Islamic Shari'ah. And such children shall be sentenced for such offences in accordance with this Act only after they have reached the age of 18.

(d) The cases of children who have not reached the age of 18 at the time of the offence and who have the benefit of the excused defence under subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall be dealt with in all other judicial stages under a special juvenile justice system outside the general criminal justice system.

**54. Involuntary intoxication**

(a) A person who, at the time of his conduct, as a result of involuntary intoxication, lacked substantial capacity either to appreciate the criminality of his conduct or to conform his conduct to the requirements of law, is excused for that offence.

(b) Involuntary intoxication is defined as follows:

(1) it resulted from the introduction into his body of a substance without his knowledge; or

(2) the intoxication caused was grossly excessive in degree, given the amount of the intoxicant, to which the actor was not susceptible, and this was not known to him, and he had no reasonable way of knowing.

**55. Duress**

(a) A person is excused for an offence he has committed if, at the time of the offence, he was in the following circumstances:

(1) he was compelled to commit the offence by the use of, or a threat to use, unlawful force against his person or the person of another, which a person of reasonable firmness in his situation would have been unable to resist.

(b) The defence provided in subsection (a) of this section is not available for an offence defined in section 110 of this Act.

**56. Abnormal mental condition**

(a) A person is excused for an offence he has committed if, at the time of the offence, he was in one of the following circumstances:

(1) he had a medically determinable disease or defect which is not otherwise expressly provided for or excluded in any other section of this chapter of excuses; and

(2) as a result of such disease or defect, he was unable to:

(i) appreciate the nature and consequences of his conduct; or

(ii) appreciate the wrongfulness of his conduct; or

(iii) control his conduct.

(b) For the purposes of subsection (a) of this section, a determinable disease or defect does not include a mental condition manifested only by repeated criminal or otherwise antisocial conduct.

**57. Ignorance and mistake of law based on official statement**

(a) A person is excused for an offence he has committed in the following circumstances:

(1) he did not know of the existence of the law defining the offence prior to the commission of the offence, and the law had not been published or otherwise reasonably made available to him.

(2) and as a result of the circumstances in subsection (a)(1), he did not know that his conduct was prohibited by law at the time of the offence.

(b) A person is excused for an offence he has committed in the following circumstances:

(1) he acts in reasonable reliance upon an official statement of the law, afterward determined to be invalid or erroneous, contained in:

(i) a statute;

(ii) a judicial decision, opinion, order or rule;

(iii) an administrative order or grant of permission; or

(iv) an official interpretation of the public officer or body charged by law with responsibility for the interpretation, administration or enforcement of the law defining the offence; and

(2) as a result thereof, he did not know that his conduct was prohibited by law at the time of the offence.

(c) A person is excused for an offence he has committed in the following circumstances:

(1) he:

(i) exercised due diligence in ascertaining the meaning of the law with respect to his conduct; and

(ii) acted in good faith and in the honest belief that his conduct was not prohibited by law, and this belief was one that a law-abiding and reasonable person in his situation would have held; and

(2) as a result thereof, he did not know that his conduct was prohibited by law at the time of the offence.

(d) The defendant has the burden of proving the defence provided in subsection (c) of this section by clear and convincing evidence.

**58. Mistaken belief in a justification**

(a) A person is excused for an offence he has committed in the following circumstances:

(1) he mistakenly believed that his conduct was justified under a justification defined in Chapter 30 of this Act; and

(2) his mistake was:

(i) one that he was not negligent in making; or

(ii) one which, if the law were to prescribe a lesser culpability for the result element of the offence charged, would be a lesser offence, or if there were no result element, would be a lesser offence with respect to the circumstantial element.

**59. Definitions**

(a) "Excuse" and "excused" are given the meaning provided in section 50(a) of this Act.

(b) "Intoxication" is given the meaning provided in section 40(d) of this Act.

(c) "Government agent" is given the meaning provided in section 533(b) of this Act.

### CHAPTER 60: PROCEDURAL DEFENCES

**60. General principles relating to procedural defences**

(a) "Procedural defence" refers to a defence or bar to prosecution, to the bringing of a prosecution, to the acceptance of a prosecution, to the conduct of a prosecution, and to the imposition of a judgment, as defined in this chapter.

(b) Unless otherwise provided in this Act, a procedural defence that a person is entitled to for his unlawful conduct is a defence that may be withheld from him in a manner permitted by law.

(c) A person who merely aids another person who has the benefit of a procedural defence does not have the benefit of that defence.

(d) Unless otherwise provided in this Act, the fact that a person mistakenly believes that his conduct is a procedural defence is not a defence.

**61. Statute of limitations**

(a) A prosecution is barred if it is not commenced within the following periods:

(1) For felonies, 8 years from the time the offence was committed; or

(2) For misdemeanours, 3 years from the time the offence was committed.

(b) The offences for which a hadd is prescribed in the Holy Qur'an are an exception to the rule stated in subsections (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section.

(c) The statute of limitations shall begin to run on the day after the offence was committed. An offence is committed when:

(1) every element of the offence has occurred; or

(2) the course of conduct or the defendant's complicity therein terminates.

(d) The statute of limitations is tolled upon the commencement of a prosecution by the State for that offence.

(e) A prosecution is commenced on the date the indictment is filed with the court.

**62. Incompetency to stand trial, be convicted or be sentenced**

(a) A person who, as a result of mental or physical disease or defect, is unable to understand the nature and purpose of the proceedings against him or to assist in his own defence, shall not be tried, convicted or sentenced for the commission of an offence so long as such incapacity endures.

(b) A person acquitted and released under this section is a person who must be referred to a mental health facility or a centre for the treatment of mental disorders for the purpose of ascertaining whether he should be committed to such a facility. The period for such referral and assessment shall not exceed 60 days. The period shall be the shorter of the time required for the medical assessment and 60 days.

**63. Diplomatic immunity**

(a) A person who has been granted immunity by the State in the following circumstances shall not be tried, convicted or sentenced for the commission of an offence:

(1) he is a person who has been granted diplomatic immunity by the Government of the Maldives under an international treaty; or

(2) he is a dignitary of a foreign state, an ambassador of a foreign country, or a representative of an international organization who has been granted diplomatic immunity under an international treaty.

**64. Former prosecution for the same offence**

(a) A prosecution is barred if the defendant was formerly prosecuted for the same offence, based upon the same facts, if the former prosecution:

(1) resulted in an acquittal; or

(2) resulted in a conviction; or

(3) (i) was terminated by a final order or judgment for the defendant, which has not been set aside, reversed, or vacated; and

(ii) the subsequent prosecution is for an offence of which the defendant could have been convicted on the former prosecution and which was within the jurisdiction of the court to which the former prosecution was brought.

(4) was improperly terminated.

(b) For the purposes of subsection (d) of this section and section 65(d) of this Act:

(1) A prosecution is improperly terminated if the termination takes place after the first witness is sworn but before verdict, and the termination is not for reasons of manifest necessity.

(2) A termination is not improper in the following circumstances:

(i) the defendant consented to the termination or waived his right to object to the termination; or

(ii) the court finds that the termination is necessary because:

(a) it is physically impossible to proceed with the trial in conformity with law; or

(b) there is a legal defect in the proceedings which would make any judgment entered upon a verdict reversible as a matter of law; or

(c) prejudicial conduct, in or out of the courtroom, makes it impossible to proceed with the trial without injustice to either the defendant or the State;

**65. Former prosecution for a different offence**

(a) A prosecution is barred if the defendant was formerly prosecuted for a different offence or for the same offence based upon different facts, if the former prosecution resulted in an acquittal or in a conviction, and the subsequent prosecution is for an offence of which the defendant could have been convicted on the former prosecution and which was within the jurisdiction of the court to which the former prosecution was brought.

(b) A prosecution is barred if the defendant was formerly prosecuted for a different offence, if the former prosecution resulted in an acquittal or in a conviction, and the subsequent prosecution is for an offence which was not consummated when the former trial began, unless:

(1) the subsequent prosecution is for an offence of which the defendant could not have been convicted on the former prosecution; or

(2) the subsequent prosecution is for an offence which requires proof of a fact not required for the former offence and the law defining each of the offences is intended to prevent a substantially different harm or evil; or

(3) the second offence was not consummated when the former trial began; or

(4) the former prosecution was improperly terminated, and the subsequent prosecution is for an offence of which the defendant could have been convicted on the former prosecution had it not been improperly terminated.

**66. Former prosecution in another jurisdiction: when a bar**

(a) A prosecution is not barred by a former prosecution of the defendant for a different offence, based upon the same facts, if:

(1) the former prosecution was in a court which lacked jurisdiction over the defendant or the offence; or

(2) the former prosecution was procured by the defendant without the knowledge of the appropriate prosecuting officer and with the purpose of avoiding the sentence which might otherwise be imposed; or

(3) the former conviction was reversed or vacated.

**67. Definitions**

(a) "Elements" is given the meaning provided in section 21(a) of this Act.

(b) "Procedural defence" is given the meaning provided in section 60(a) of this Act.

### CHAPTER 70: CORPORATE AND OTHER IMPERSONAL LIABILITY

**70. Liability of corporations and unincorporated associations**

(a) A corporation or unincorporated association is guilty of an offence if:

(1) the conduct constituting the offence is engaged in, authorized, solicited, requested, commanded, or performed by the board of directors or by a high managerial agent acting in behalf of the corporation or association within the scope of his office or employment; or

(2) (i) the conduct constituting the offence is engaged in by an agent of the corporation or association acting in behalf of the corporation or association and within the scope of his office or employment, and:

(a) in behalf of the corporation or association; and

(b) within the scope of his office or employment; and

(ii) the offence is a misdemeanour or is defined by a statute other than this Act which clearly indicates a legislative purpose to impose liability on corporations or unincorporated associations for the conduct of their agents; or

(3) the offence consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty of affirmative performance imposed on corporations or associations by law.

(b) In a prosecution under subsection (a)(2) of this section, it is a defence that the high managerial agent having supervisory responsibility over the subject matter of the offence employed due diligence to prevent its commission. This defence is not available if it is plainly inconsistent with the legislative purpose of the statute defining the offence.

(c) (1) "Corporation" refers to a corporation that has fulfilled the legal requirements for its establishment, including both publicly and privately held corporations.

(2) "Unincorporated association" refers to a trust, partnership, government, government agency, or two or more persons associated in fact for the purpose of carrying on any activity.

(3) "High managerial agent" refers to an officer of a corporation or unincorporated association, or an agent of a corporation or unincorporated association having duties of such responsibility that his conduct may fairly be assumed to represent the policy of the corporation or association.

(4) "Agent" refers to any director, officer, employee, or other person authorized to act in behalf of the corporation or unincorporated association.

**71. Individual liability not barred by corporate or association liability**

(a) An individual is guilty of an offence if it is committed in the name of a corporation or unincorporated association or in behalf of a corporation or unincorporated association, and he is legally accountable for the conduct of the corporation or association.

(b) A person who is convicted of an offence committed by a corporation or unincorporated association may be sentenced to the punishment authorized for the offence, whether or not the corporation or association is sentenced to a different punishment.

**72. Definitions**

(a) "Agent" is given the meaning provided in section 70(c)(4) of this Act.

(b) "Corporation" is given the meaning provided in section 70(c)(1) of this Act.

(c) "High managerial agent" is given the meaning provided in section 70(c)(3) of this Act.

(d) "Unincorporated association" is given the meaning provided in section 70(c)(2) of this Act.

### CHAPTER 80: INCHOATE OFFENCES

**80. Attempt**

(a) A person is guilty of an attempt to commit an offence if, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for commission of the offence, he:

(1) purposely engages in conduct which would constitute the offence if the attendant circumstances were as he believes them to be;

(b) (1) Conduct shall not be held to constitute a substantial step under subsection (a)(2) of this section unless it is strongly corroborative of the actor's criminal purpose.

(2) The following, if strongly corroborative of the actor's criminal purpose, shall not be held as a matter of law not to constitute a substantial step:

(i) lying in wait, searching for or following the contemplated victim of the offence;

(ii) enticing or seeking to entice the contemplated victim of the offence to go to the place contemplated for its commission;

(iii) reconnoitering the place contemplated for the commission of the offence;

(iv) unlawful entry of a structure, vehicle or enclosure in which it is contemplated that the offence will be committed;

(v) possession of materials to be employed in the commission of the offence, which are specially designed for such unlawful use or which can serve no lawful purpose of the actor under the circumstances; or

(vi) possession, collection or fabrication of materials to be employed in the commission of the offence, at or near the place contemplated for its commission, where such possession, collection or fabrication serves no lawful purpose of the actor under the circumstances.

**81. Solicitation**

(a) A person is guilty of solicitation to commit an offence if with the purpose of promoting or facilitating its commission he commands, encourages or requests another person to engage in specific conduct which would constitute such offence or an attempt to commit such offence or which would establish his complicity in its commission or attempted commission.

(b) It is not required under subsection (a) of this section that the solicitation be express. It is sufficient if the actor's conduct indicates the solicitation to the other person.

**82. Conspiracy**

(a) A person is guilty of conspiracy with another person or persons to commit an offence if with the purpose of promoting or facilitating its commission he:

(1) agrees with such other person or persons that they or one or more of them will engage in conduct which constitutes such offence; and

(2) one of them performs an overt act in pursuance of such conspiracy.

(b) The purpose of a conspiracy includes the following:

(1) the commission of the offence which was the object of the conspiracy;

(2) escape from the scene of the offence;

(3) distribution of the fruits of the offence; and

(4) acts of concealment, other than mere silence, that are in furtherance of the conspiracy.

(c) A person is deemed to have conspired with another person if he has a reasonable belief that such other person has agreed to the conspiracy, or if he has a reasonable belief that such other person will agree to the conspiracy for the purpose of achieving its object, even if he does not know the identity of such other person.

(d) A conspiracy continues until its object is accomplished or until there is an abandonment of the conspiracy. A person is deemed to be a member of the conspiracy during this period unless he has renounced the conspiracy.

(e) A person is deemed to have renounced a conspiracy if he:

(1) advises the other conspirators of his abandonment; or

(2) informs the law enforcement authorities of the existence of the conspiracy and of his participation therein.

(f) An abandonment of a conspiracy is deemed to have occurred if, within the statute of limitations provided in section 61 "Statute of limitations," none of the conspirators have performed an overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy.

(g) Except as provided in section 85 "Renunciation of criminal purpose," a renunciation or abandonment of a conspiracy is not a defence.

**83. Incapacity, irresponsibility or immunity of a party to solicitation or conspiracy**

(a) It is no defence to a prosecution under section 81 "Solicitation" or section 82 "Conspiracy" that the person solicited or conspired with is a person who is immune from prosecution or who has not been prosecuted or has been acquitted or has been convicted of a different offence or degree of offence or is a person who is not within the jurisdiction of the court.

**84. Defence available to the victim of the offence**

(a) Unless otherwise provided in this Act, it is a defence to a prosecution under section 81 "Solicitation" or section 82 "Conspiracy" that:

(1) the defendant is the victim of the offence solicited or conspired to be committed; or

(2) the defendant's conduct, though voluntary, was such that the offence was completed by his conduct, whether or not he was aware of the criminality of his conduct.

**85. Renunciation of criminal purpose**

(a) In a prosecution under section 80 "Attempt," section 81 "Solicitation," or section 82 "Conspiracy," it is an affirmative defence that the defendant, after soliciting another person to commit an offence, persuaded him not to do so or otherwise prevented its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary renunciation of his criminal purpose.

(b) A renunciation of criminal purpose is not voluntary if it is motivated, in whole or in part, by circumstances, not present or apparent at the inception of the actor's course of conduct, which increase the probability of detection or apprehension or which make more difficult the accomplishment of the criminal purpose.

(c) A renunciation is not complete if it is motivated by a decision to postpone the criminal conduct until a more advantageous time or to transfer the criminal effort to another but similar objective or victim.

**86. Grading of attempt, solicitation and conspiracy**

(a) The offences defined in section 80 "Attempt," section 81 "Solicitation," and section 82 "Conspiracy" are of the same grade and degree as the most serious offence which is attempted or solicited or is an object of the conspiracy.

(b) (1) If the actor's conduct is very close to the commission of the offence attempted, solicited or conspired to be committed, the sentence imposed shall be one grade higher than the presumptive sentence.

(2) If the actor:

(i) has completed all the acts which he believes necessary for the commission of the offence; or

(ii) has engaged in all the conduct which he believes to be his part in the commission of the offence, the sentence imposed shall be two grades higher than the presumptive sentence.

**87. Possession of instrument of crime**

(a) A person commits an offence if he has any instrument of crime with purpose to employ it criminally.

(b) "Instrument of crime" means:

(1) anything specially made or specially adapted for criminal use; or

(2) anything commonly used for criminal purposes and possessed by the actor under circumstances which are not manifestly appropriate for lawful uses it may have.

(c) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**88. Definitions**

(a) "Instrument of crime" is given the meaning provided in section 87(b) of this Act.

### CHAPTER 90: CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENCES AND SENTENCING

**90. Classes of offences**

(a) Every criminal offence defined in this Act is classified for the purpose of sentence into one of the following categories:

(1) Felony of the 1st degree; or

(2) Felony of the 2nd degree; or

(3) Felony of the 3rd degree; or

(4) Felony of the 4th degree; or

(5) Felony of the 5th degree; or

(6) Misdemeanour of the 1st degree; or

(7) Misdemeanour of the 2nd degree; or

(8) Misdemeanour of the 3rd degree; or

(9) Violation.

(b) A violation is not a criminal offence. A conviction of a violation does not give rise to any disability or legal consequence based on conviction of a criminal offence.

**91. Unclassified offences**

(a) An offence for which the following terms of imprisonment are authorized is of the following grade:

(1) If imprisonment for a term of more than 5 years is authorized, it is a felony of the 2nd degree.

(2) If imprisonment for a term of more than 6 months but not more than 1 year is authorized, it is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

(3) If imprisonment for a term of 30 days or more but not more than 6 months is authorized, it is a misdemeanour of the 2nd degree.

(4) If imprisonment for a term of less than 3 months is authorized, it is a misdemeanour of the 3rd degree.

(b) If an offence is declared to be a felony without specification of degree, it is:

(1) a felony of the 5th degree.

(2) If an offence is declared to be a misdemeanour without specification of degree, it is a misdemeanour of the 2nd degree.

(c) A violation is an offence in the following circumstances:

(1) it is not expressly declared to be a felony or a misdemeanour, and no sentence of imprisonment is authorized upon conviction thereof;

(2) it is an offence for which culpability is not required to be proven, and only the act is required to be proven.

(d) In a case where the prosecution proves that the defendant was negligent in ascertaining the elements of the offence, an offence for which culpability is not required to be proven, and only the act is required to be proven, may be of a higher grade than a violation. In such a case, the grade of the offence shall be as provided in subsection (a) of this section.

**92. Authorized terms of imprisonment**

(a) Unless otherwise provided in this Act, the maximum terms of imprisonment for the following offences shall be as follows:

(1) For a felony of the 1st degree, [death or] a term of not more than 25 years;

(2) For a felony of the 2nd degree, a term of not more than 15 years;

(3) For a felony of the 3rd degree, a term of not more than 8 years;

(4) For a felony of the 4th degree, a term of not more than 4 years;

(5) For a felony of the 5th degree, a term of not more than 5 years;

(6) For a misdemeanour of the 1st degree, a term of not more than 1 year;

(7) For a misdemeanour of the 2nd degree, a term of not more than 6 months;

(8) For a misdemeanour of the 3rd degree, a term of not more than 3 months;

(9) For a violation, no sentence of imprisonment is authorized.

(b) The maximum term of imprisonment prescribed for a grade of offence is appropriate only for the most serious type of offence within that grade.

(c) The death penalty is reserved for the most serious type of intentional homicide.

**93. Authorized fines**

(a) Unless otherwise provided in this Act, the following fines shall be imposed for offences in the following grades:

(1) twice the pecuniary gain derived from the offence; or

(2) (i) For a felony of the 1st degree, MVR 2,000,000/-;

(ii) For a felony of the 2nd degree, MVR 1,000,000/-;

(iii) For a felony of the 3rd degree, MVR 400,000/-;

(iv) For a felony of the 4th degree, MVR 200,000/-;

(v) For a felony of the 5th degree, MVR 100,000/-;

(vi) For a misdemeanour of the 1st degree, MVR 50,000/-;

(vii) For a misdemeanour of the 2nd degree, MVR 24,000/-;

(viii) For a misdemeanour of the 3rd degree, MVR 12,000/-;

(ix) For a violation, MVR 4,000/-.

(b) The maximum fine that may be imposed on a corporation for an offence is twice the fine payable by an individual under subsections (a) and (b) of this section.

**94. Multiple convictions**

(a) When multiple convictions of an offender are before the court for sentencing at the same time, or when the defendant is serving a sentence of imprisonment and the court is imposing another such sentence, the court shall sentence the defendant for each offence.

(b) Notwithstanding that the defendant is convicted of two offences or of two degrees of an offence, and that the defendant is liable for such offences, if any of the following circumstances exist, the court shall sentence the defendant for only one of the two offences:

(1) The two offences are based on the same conduct; and

(i) The harm caused by one offence is:

(a) fully included within the harm caused by the other offence; or

(b) a lesser degree of the same offence; or

(ii) The two offences differ only in the following respects:

(a) one offence is defined to proscribe a designated kind of conduct generally and the other to proscribe a specific instance of such conduct; or

(b) one offence is defined to proscribe a kind of harm and the other to proscribe a lesser degree of the same harm;

(iii) The offences are defined in terms of a continuing course of conduct and the defendant's course of conduct was uninterrupted. (This is unless the law defines different parts of his conduct as separate offences.)

(2) One offence consists only of a conspiracy or other form of preparation to commit the other; or

(3) Inconsistent findings of fact are required to establish the commission of the offences; or

(4) One offence is defined as a continuing course of conduct and the other is an episode included within such continuing course of conduct; or

(5) The offences differ only in that one is defined to prohibit a designated kind of conduct generally and the other to prohibit a specific instance of such conduct.

(c) In circumstances where the imposition of more than one sentence is barred under subsection (b) of this section, the court shall sentence the defendant for the more serious of the two offences, or for the offence of the higher grade.

**PART II: SPECIFIC OFFENCES**

### CHAPTER 110: HOMICIDE

**110. Murder**

(a) A person is guilty of murder if he knowingly causes the death of another human being.

(b) A person is guilty of murder if he recklessly causes the death of another human being under circumstances manifesting extreme indifference to the value of human life.

(c) A person's conduct is presumed to manifest extreme indifference to the value of human life, unless proven otherwise, in the following circumstances:

(1) The actor is engaged or is an accomplice in the commission of, or an attempt to commit, or flight after committing or attempting to commit any violent offence;

(2) Any violent offence.

(d) This offence is a felony of the 1st degree.

(e) "Violent offence" refers to any offence that may cause any kind of bodily injury.

**111. Manslaughter**

(a) A person is guilty of manslaughter if he recklessly causes the death of another human being.

(b) A criminal homicide constitutes manslaughter when a homicide which would otherwise be murder is committed under the influence of extreme mental or emotional disturbance for which there is reasonable explanation or excuse. The reasonableness of such explanation or excuse shall be determined from the viewpoint of a person in the actor's situation under the circumstances as he believes them to be.

(c) This is a felony of the 2nd degree.

**112. Negligent homicide**

(a) A person is guilty of negligent homicide if he negligently causes the death of another human being.

(b) This is a felony of the 4th degree.

**113. Causing or aiding suicide**

(a) A person who purposely causes another to commit suicide by force, duress or deception commits an offence.

(b) A person who knowingly causes or aids another to commit suicide, or who solicits another to commit suicide, or who attempts to commit suicide, commits an offence.

(1) A person is guilty of an offence if he knowingly:

(i) solicits another to commit suicide; or

(ii) aids another to commit suicide; or

(iii) attempts to commit suicide.

(2) An authorized medical practitioner does not commit an offence under subsection (b)(1)(i) of this section in the following circumstances:

(i) when a patient is known to be brain-dead or is in an irreversible coma, and there are reasonable medical grounds to believe so, upon the request of the patient's closest family members, treatment is withdrawn.

(ii) when medical devices connected to a patient to keep him alive are withdrawn upon the request of the patient's closest family members.

(3) A person who intentionally performs the following acts is presumed to have attempted to commit suicide under subsection (b)(1)(ii) of this section, unless proven otherwise:

(i) using a prohibited intoxicant or a medicinal intoxicant to the point of overdose;

(ii) causing serious bodily injury to his own body.

(c) "Suicide" refers to knowingly committing an act that could result in one's own death.

(d) This offence is graded as follows:

(1) The offence described in subsection (a) of this section is one degree lower than the punishment that would be imposed on the defendant if he had committed the offence described in sections 110 to 112 of this Act himself.

(2) The offence described in subsection (b)(1)(i) of this section is a felony of the 5th degree if it results in the suicide or attempted suicide of another person.

(3) Attempted suicide is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**114. Concealing a death**

(a) A person who, knowing that another person has been killed, conceals the fact, commits an offence.

(b) This is a felony of the 5th degree.

**115. Definitions**

(a) "Bodily injury" is given the meaning provided in section 17(7) of this Act.

(b) "Deception" is given the meaning provided in section 212(b)(2) of this Act.

(c) "Duress" is given the meaning provided in section 55 of this Act.

(d) "Serious bodily injury" is given the meaning provided in section 17(91) of this Act.

(e) "Suicide" is given the meaning provided in section 113(c) of this Act.

(f) "Violent offence" is given the meaning provided in section 110(b) of this Act.

### CHAPTER 120: ASSAULT, RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT AND TERRORIZING

**120. Assault**

(a) A person is guilty of assault if, without the consent of another person, he:

(1) touches or injures him; or

(2) threatens to injure him at that moment.

(b) (1) This offence is a felony of the 4th degree in the following circumstances:

(i) causing serious bodily injury to a person; or

(ii) using a dangerous weapon in the commission of the offence; or

(iii) the victim of the assault is a police officer or a member of the armed forces.

(2) If a person causes bodily injury to another, the offence is a misdemeanour of the 2nd degree.

(3) In other circumstances, the offence is a misdemeanour of the 3rd degree.

(c) If the assault is committed against a person in his dwelling or as a guest in a dwelling, the sentence for any act considered an offence under this section shall be one grade higher than the presumptive sentence in the sentencing guidelines of section 1002 of this Act.

(d) (1) "Dangerous weapon" refers to:

(i) a weapon capable of causing death, which is used in circumstances where its use for a lawful purpose cannot be proven; or

(ii) an object that has no ordinary lawful use and can be used to cause serious bodily injury; or

(iii) an object that falls within the definition of "dangerous weapon" and "sharp object" under Law number 17/2010 (Prohibition of Threatening and Possessing Dangerous Weapons and Sharp Objects Act).

(2) "House" refers to a building or vessel used by a person for dwelling.

**121. Reckless endangering**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he recklessly engages in conduct which places or may place another person in danger of death or serious bodily injury.

(b) The following acts, if committed in violation of law and regulations, are presumed to be reckless acts that place or may place another person in danger of death or serious bodily injury, unless proven otherwise:

(1) dealing with explosives and destructive substances; or

(2) dealing with machinery, engines, and other engine-powered devices; or

(3) demolishing and felling buildings; or

(4) keeping and caring for animals; or

(5) cutting and felling trees; or

(6) launching and landing sea vessels.

(c) (1) "Destructive substance" refers to explosives and flammable substances. It includes timed explosives, detonators, poisons, poisonous gases, deadly biological or chemical substances, and radioactive substances.

(2) "Explosive" refers to any device that is inherently explosive among those prohibited for general use or requiring government permission for use.

(d) (1) If the offence was committed in circumstances manifesting extreme indifference to the value of human life, the offence is a felony of the 4th degree.

(2) In other circumstances, the offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**122. Terrorizing**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) threatens to commit any offence likely to result in death or serious bodily injury to another person; or

(2) communicates to any person a threat to cause a catastrophe, or a threat of a violent offence, knowing that the information is false.

(b) This is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**123. Definitions**

(a) "Bodily injury" is given the meaning provided in section 17(7) of this Act.

(b) "Destructive substance" is given the meaning provided in section 121(c)(1) of this Act.

(c) "Dangerous weapon" is given the meaning provided in section 120(d)(1) of this Act.

(d) "Explosive" is given the meaning provided in section 121(c)(2) of this Act.

(e) "House" is given the meaning provided in section 120(d)(2) of this Act.

(f) "Serious bodily injury" is given the meaning provided in section 17(91) of this Act.

(g) "Violent offence" is given the meaning provided in section 110(b) of this Act.

### CHAPTER 130: SEXUAL OFFENCES

**130. Rape**

(a) A person is guilty of rape if he engages in sexual intercourse with another person without consent.

(b) In a case where a person has sexual intercourse with his wife, consent is presumed unless proven otherwise.

(c) "Adultery (Zina)" is given the meaning provided in section 411(e) of this Act.

(d) (1) This offence is a felony of the 2nd degree in one of the following circumstances:

(i) the victim is a minor, and the defendant is 4 years or more older than the minor; or

(ii) the rape was compelled by force or by the threat of force.

(2) This offence is a felony of the 3rd degree in one of the following circumstances:

(i) the victim is a child under the age of 18;

(ii) the defendant knew that the victim was unaware of the nature of the act;

(iii) the defendant was in a position of authority over the victim.

(3) In other circumstances, this offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**131. Sexual act**

(a) A person who, for the purpose of arousing or gratifying sexual desire, engages in a sexual act with another person, commits an offence.

(b) "Sexual act" means:

(1) touching the sexual organ, anus, groin, or breast of another person without a valid reason under Islamic Shari'ah; or

(2) causing another person to touch one's sexual organ, anus, or breast without a valid reason under Islamic Shari'ah, or touching such a part of another person; or

(3) causing semen to come into contact with a part of the victim's body without a valid reason under Islamic Shari'ah.

(c) (1) This offence is a felony of the 4th degree in one of the following circumstances:

(i) the victim is a child under the age of 18; or

(ii) the sexual act was compelled by force or by the threat of force.

(iii) intercourse was compelled or forced.

(2) This offence is a felony of the 5th degree in one of the following circumstances:

(i) the victim is a minor, and the defendant is 4 years or more older than the minor; or

(ii) the defendant knew that the victim was unaware of the nature of the act;

(iii) the defendant was in a position of authority over the victim.

(3) In other circumstances, this offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**132. Indecent exposure**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) exposes his genitals in a place where he is likely to be seen by others;

(2) and does so under circumstances in which he knows his conduct is likely to cause affront or alarm; or

(3) for the purpose of arousing or gratifying sexual desire.

(b) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**133. Sexual exploitation**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) causes another person to expose his or her genitals or to engage in any lewd exhibition; and

(2) does so for the purpose of arousing or gratifying sexual desire.

(b) (1) If the act was committed against a child under the age of 18 or a person who is legally incompetent, it is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

(2) In other circumstances, the offence is a misdemeanour of the 2nd degree.

**134. General provisions relating to sexual offences**

(a) The consent of a minor to sexual intercourse or a sexual act, or his or her failure to object, is inherently invalid. However, this rule does not apply to a child under the age of 18 who is in a legally valid marriage with the defendant.

(b) Unless expressly provided otherwise in this Act, in a prosecution where the definition of an offence states that the victim is a child under the age of 18, it is sufficient to prove that the defendant was negligent in ascertaining the child's age.

(c) The following acts, when performed by a doctor, an authorized medical practitioner, a guardian, a stepmother, a stepfather, or a legal guardian for the purpose of medical treatment or examination, are not considered offences under this chapter:

(1) an act performed for the purpose of medical treatment;

(2) the act is performed in accordance with accepted medical standards; and

(3) the person performing the act has the necessary training and experience in the medical field.

(d) In an offence under this section, if the offender used deception as to the nature of his acts or as to his identity, and if such deception was for the purpose of committing the offence, the sentence imposed shall be one grade higher than the presumptive sentence.

**135. Definitions**

(a) "Consent" is given the meaning provided in section 27 of this Act.

(b) "Legal guardian" is given the meaning provided in section 44(b) of this Act.

(c) "Sexual act" is given the meaning provided in section 131(b) of this Act.

(d) "Adultery (Zina)" is given the meaning provided in section 411(e) of this Act.

### CHAPTER 140: KIDNAPPING AND COERCION

**140. Unlawful restraint**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he knowingly restrains another unlawfully so as to interfere substantially with his liberty.

(b) (1) "Restrain" refers to the restriction of a person's movements without his consent and with knowledge that he has no legal right to do so.

(2) "Freedom of movement" refers to the general opportunity for people to travel from one place to another and to move about.

(c) (1) If a person is restrained for the purpose of compelling him to perform labor against his will, the offence is a felony of the 3rd degree.

(2) If a person is knowingly restrained for a period of more than one day, the offence is a felony of the 4th degree.

(3) In other circumstances, the offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

(4) If the defendant reasonably believes that he is the parent or guardian of the person restrained, and the person restrained is not legally competent to consent, the offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**141. Criminal coercion**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, with purpose unlawfully to restrict another's freedom of action to his detriment, he threatens to:

(1) commit any criminal offence; or

(2) accuse anyone of a criminal offence; or

(3) expose any secret tending to subject any person to hatred, contempt or ridicule, or to impair his credit or business repute; or

(4) take or withhold action as an official, or cause an official to take or withhold action.

(b) It is an affirmative defence to prosecution based on paragraphs (2), (3) or (4) of subsection (a) that the actor believed:

(1) the accusation or secret to be true or the proposed official action justified and;

(2) the purpose of the threat was to cause the other to do an act which would be a reasonable exercise of his rights in the circumstances.

(c) (1) In the following circumstances, the offence is a felony of a 5th degree:

(i) the act compelled is the commission of a felony;

(ii) the threat is to inflict bodily injury which, if inflicted, would constitute a felony.

(2) In other circumstances, the offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**142. Definitions**

(a) "Freedom of movement" is given the meaning provided in section 140(b)(2) of this Act.

(b) "Legal guardian" is given the meaning provided in section 44(b) of this Act.

(c) "Government agent" is given the meaning provided in section 533(b) of this Act.

(d) "Restrain" is given the meaning provided in section 140(b)(1) of this Act.

### CHAPTER 210: OFFENCES OF THEFT, MISAPPROPRIATION, CRIMINAL BREACH OF TRUST, CHEATING AND EXTORTION

**210. Consolidated theft provisions**

(a) In a prosecution under this chapter, evidence of offences defined in sections 211 to 216 of this Act is admissible to prove the offence.

(b) The offences defined in sections 211 to 216 of this Act are graded as follows:

(1) If the value of the property is more than MVR 500,000/-, the offence is a felony of the 3rd degree.

(2) If the value of the property is more than MVR 50,000/-, or if the stolen property is a firearm, a motor vehicle, a motorboat, or any other motorized vessel, the offence is a felony of the 4th degree.

(3) If the value of the property is more than MVR 5,000/-, the offence is a felony of the 5th degree.

(4) If the value of the property is more than MVR 500/-, the offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

(5) In other circumstances, the offence is a misdemeanour of the 2nd degree.

(c) A person is not guilty of an offence under this chapter if he:

(1) acted under an honest claim of right to the property or service involved or that he had a right to acquire or dispose of it as he did; or

(2) took property exposed for sale, intending to purchase and pay for it promptly, or reasonably believing that the owner, if present, would have consented.

(d) "Value" means the market value of the property at the time and place of the offence, or if such cannot be satisfactorily ascertained, the cost of replacement of the property within a reasonable time after the offence.

**211. Theft**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) takes, or exercises unlawful control over, movable property of another;

(2) with purpose to deprive him thereof.

(b) "Property of another" includes property in which any person other than the actor has an interest which the actor is not privileged to infringe, regardless of the fact that the actor also has an interest in the property and regardless of the fact that the other person might be precluded from civil recovery because the property was used in an unlawful transaction or was contraband.

**212. Theft by deception**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) knowingly obtains property of another; and

(2) by deception.

(b) (1) "Deception" means knowingly to create or reinforce a false impression, including false impressions as to law, value, intention or other state of mind; but deception as to a person's intention to perform a promise shall not be inferred from the fact alone that he did not subsequently perform the promise.

(2) "Deception" includes:

(i) creating or reinforcing a false impression, including false impressions as to law, value, state of mind or other state of mind; or

(ii) preventing another from acquiring information which would affect his judgment of a transaction; or

(iii) failing to correct a false impression which the deceiver previously created or reinforced, or which the deceiver knows to be influencing another to whom he stands in a fiduciary or confidential relationship; or

(iv) failing to disclose a known lien, adverse claim or other legal impediment to the enjoyment of property which he transfers or encumbers in consideration for the property obtained, whether such impediment is or is not valid, or is or is not a matter of official record; or

(v) issuing or passing a check or similar sight order for the payment of money, knowing that it will not be honored by the drawee.

(3) "Financial instrument" means any written instrument which, whether complete or incomplete, purports to evidence a pecuniary obligation or a claim to a pecuniary advantage, and includes:

(i) a claim to property, service, or a share in a corporation; or

(ii) a written promise to pay money on a certain date; or

(iii) a written promise to deliver property on a certain date; or

(iv) a right created by a contract.

(c) The following are not deceptive:

(1) puffing by statements unlikely to deceive ordinary persons in the group addressed; or

(2) statements that are not of pecuniary significance.

(d) A promise that is not kept is not in itself deceptive.

(e) A person is presumed to have deceived as provided in subsection (a)(2) of this section in the following circumstances:

(1) In giving money by check:

(i) if the check is presented to the bank on which it is drawn within 30 days after its date, and the drawer has insufficient funds with the drawee to cover it, and he fails to make full satisfaction of the amount due within 7 days after receiving notice of that fact from the payee; or

(ii) if the drawer had no account with the bank on which the check was drawn at the time he issued the check; or

(2) In paying by credit card or debit card:

(i) if the card was stolen and the defendant knew it; or

(ii) if the card was cancelled or revoked and the defendant knew it; or

(iii) if the defendant's use of the card was for any other reason unauthorized by the issuer or the person to whom it was issued, and the defendant knew it; or

(3) In renting or leasing property:

(i) if the property is not returned to the owner or his agent within 10 days after the expiration of the rental or lease agreement; or

(ii) if the defendant gave false information concerning his name, address, employment, or other information in order to obtain the rental or lease agreement.

(f) Notwithstanding section 210(b)(5) of this Act, if a person commits an offence defined in this section by the deceptive use of a check, credit card, debit card, money order, or other financial instrument, the offence shall not be less than a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**213. Robbery**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, in the course of committing a theft, he:

(1) inflicts serious bodily injury upon another;

(b) It is a defence that the property was taken under a claim of right to the property or service involved or that the actor had a right to acquire or dispose of it as he did.

**214. Theft of services**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) knowingly obtains services which he knows are available only for compensation;

(i) by deception or threat or by false token or other means to avoid payment for the service; or

(2) having control over the disposition of services of others, to which he is not entitled, he knowingly diverts such services to his own benefit or to the benefit of another not entitled thereto.

(b) "Service" includes labor, professional service, transportation, telephone, or other public service, accommodation in hotels, restaurants, or elsewhere, admission to exhibitions, and the use of tangible or intangible property, but is not limited to these.

(c) In the following circumstances, a person is presumed to have the information required by subsection (a) of this section, unless proven otherwise:

(1) refusal to pay for a service, or absconding without payment or offer to pay; and

(2) in the hotel, restaurant, and other service industries, payment is ordinarily made at the time the service is rendered.

**215. Theft by failure to make required disposition of funds received**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) obtains property upon agreement or subject to a known legal obligation to make specified payment or other disposition, whether from such property or its proceeds or from his own property to be reserved in equivalent amount; and

(2) deals with the property as his own and;

(3) fails to make the required payment or disposition.

(b) (1) A public officer or an employee of a financial institution or a lawyer or accountant or other professional fiduciary is presumed to have the information required by this section, unless proven otherwise. However, the defendant has the right to prove that the legal obligations imposed on him are not clearly defined by a statute, an official announcement, or a binding judicial order.

(2) Unless proven otherwise, a person is presumed to have used the property of another as his own in the following circumstances:

(i) failure to pay the money or to account for its disposition upon lawful demand; or

(ii) an audit reveals a shortage or falsification of accounts.

(c) (1) "Financial institution" means a bank, insurance company, credit union, building and loan association, investment trust or other organization held out to the public as a place of deposit of funds or medium of savings or collective investment.

(2) "Fiduciary" means a person who has acquired professional training and is entrusted with the responsibility of managing, auditing, and transacting with money and financial instruments.

(3) "Fiduciary interest" means a legal duty to act in the interest of another person, association, or institution.

(d) Notwithstanding section 210(b)(5) of this Act, if a person commits an offence defined in this section, the offence shall not be less than a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**216. Theft of lost, mislaid, or misdelivered property**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) comes into control of property of another that he knows to have been lost, mislaid, or delivered under a mistake as to the nature or amount of the property or the identity of the recipient; and

(2) with purpose to deprive the owner thereof,

(3) fails to take reasonable measures to restore the property to a person entitled to have it.

(b) "Owner" means any person with a legal right to the property.

**217. Unauthorized use of property**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he knowingly makes temporary use of the property of another in one of the following ways:

(1) without the consent of the other; or

(2) with the consent of the other, but outside the scope of the conditions of the consent; and

(3) the property is of such a value that a reasonable person would believe that payment would be required for its use.

(b) "Temporary use" means a use of property of another that is not deemed to be a permanent deprivation of the property.

(c) This offence is graded as provided in section 210(b) of this Act. In determining the value of the use of the property under subsection (a) of this section, the value shall be as defined in subsection (d) of that section.

**218. Receiving stolen property**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) receives, retains, or disposes of movable property of another;

(2) knowing that it has been stolen, or believing that it has probably been stolen.

(3) The receiving or retaining is not for the purpose of restoring it to the owner.

(b) The grade of this offence is one grade lower than the grade for theft of the property.

**219. Definitions**

(a) "Deception" is given the meaning provided in section 212(b)(2) of this Act.

(b) "Fiduciary interest" is given the meaning provided in section 215(c)(3) of this Act.

(c) "Financial institution" is given the meaning provided in section 215(c)(1) of this Act.

(d) "Financial instrument" is given the meaning provided in section 212(b)(3) of this Act.

(e) "Fiduciary" is given the meaning provided in section 215(c)(2) of this Act.

(f) "Owner" is given the meaning provided in section 216(b) of this Act.

(g) "Property of another" is given the meaning provided in section 211(b) of this Act.

(h) "Service" is given the meaning provided in section 214(b) of this Act.

(i) "Temporary use" is given the meaning provided in section 217(b) of this Act.

(j) "Value" is given the meaning provided in section 210(d) of this Act.

### CHAPTER 220: OFFENCES INVOLVING DAMAGE TO AND INTRUSION UPON PROPERTY

**220. Criminal mischief**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, without the consent of the owner and without regard for the property, he:

(1) damages tangible property of another; or

(2) tampers with tangible property of another so as to endanger person or property.

(b) A person is not guilty of an offence under subsection (a)(2) of this section if:

(1) the defendant tampered with his own property;

(2) he did so in the exercise of his legal rights; and

(3) the damage to the property of another was caused by that person's reliance on property or services under the defendant's control, and that person did so without having a legal right to the property or service.

(c) If the damage to the property was caused by the defendant's use of fire or a prohibited substance, it is presumed that the defendant acted with recklessness as provided in subsection (a) of this section, unless proven otherwise.

(d) This offence is:

(1) a felony of the 4th degree if the actor purposely causes pecuniary loss in excess of MVR 500,000/-;

(2) a felony of the 5th degree if the actor purposely causes pecuniary loss in excess of MVR 50,000/-;

(3) a misdemeanour of the 1st degree if the actor purposely causes pecuniary loss in excess of MVR 5,000/-;

(4) a misdemeanour of the 2nd degree if the actor purposely causes pecuniary loss in excess of MVR 500/-;

(5) a misdemeanour of the 3rd degree in other circumstances.

(6) Notwithstanding the authorized fines under section 93 "Authorized fines," if a person commits an offence under this section and causes damage to a place or property of environmental significance, he may be fined up to MVR 100,000,000/- in addition to compensation for the damage.

(7) A place, object, or property is considered to be of environmental significance in the following circumstances:

(i) it is a place, object, or property of special environmental significance that would be known to a reasonable person, or the fact is actually known to him; or

(ii) the government or an international organization has recognized the place, object, or property as having such special significance.

(e) "Tamper" means to interfere with anything, meddle with it, or make unwarranted alterations in its condition.

**221. Criminal endangerment of property**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he, without authorization, engages in conduct which causes or threatens to cause the loss of an inhabited structure or a vital public facility or a part thereof.

(b) "Inhabited structure" means any structure, vehicle or vessel, whether occupied or not, where a person lodges or carries on business or other calling, and includes:

(1) a place where a person lodges, or where his business or other calling is conducted; or

(2) a place where people gather for purposes of business, government, education, religion, culture or entertainment, or for transit in the ordinary course of business; or

(3) a place where people lodge at night.

(c) If the offence results in the destruction of the property, the grade of the offence is one grade lower than the grade provided in section 220(d) of this Act.

(d) "Vital public facility" means property and facilities which provide important services to the public. It includes bridges, public highways, waterways, ports, communication facilities, public utilities, transit centers, and government buildings.

**222. Threat of criminal mischief**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) knowingly threatens to cause a catastrophe; or

(2) knowingly possesses a destructive substance; or

(3) the act described in subsection (a)(2) of this section was committed with the purpose of using it in the commission of a felony or knowing that another person would use it in the commission of such a felony.

(b) "Catastrophe" means:

(1) death or serious bodily injury to five or more persons; or

(2) substantial damage to five or more inhabited structures; or

(3) substantial interruption or impairment of a vital public facility; or

(4) pecuniary loss in excess of MVR 500,000/-.

(c) (1) The offence described in subsection (a)(1) of this section is a felony of the 4th degree.

(2) The offence described in subsection (a)(2) of this section is a felony of the 5th degree.

**223. Definitions**

(a) "Catastrophe" is given the meaning provided in section 222(b) of this Act.

(b) "Destructive substance" is given the meaning provided in section 121(c)(1) of this Act.

(c) "Inhabited structure" is given the meaning provided in section 221(b) of this Act.

(d) "Property of another" is given the meaning provided in section 211(b) of this Act.

(e) "Serious bodily injury" is given the meaning provided in section 17(91) of this Act.

(f) "Tamper" is given the meaning provided in section 220(e) of this Act.

(g) "Vital public facility" is given the meaning provided in section 221(d) of this Act.

### CHAPTER 230: UNLAWFUL ENTRY

**230. Unlawful entry**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, knowing that he is not licensed or privileged to do so, he enters or remains in any place.

(b) (1) It is a defence to prosecution under this section that:

(i) the place was at the time open to members of the public and the actor complied with all lawful conditions imposed on access to or remaining in the place; and

(ii) the actor reasonably believed that the owner of the place or other person empowered to license access thereto would have licensed him to enter or remain.

(c) (1) If the place entered without authorization is a highly secured premises or a place where a sign indicating danger is posted or a written notice is displayed, the offence is a felony of the 5th degree.

(2) If the place entered without authorization is a separately secured or occupied portion thereof, or is a dwelling, or is a storage facility, or is a place that is fenced or otherwise enclosed in a manner designed to exclude intruders, the offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

(3) In other circumstances, the offence is a misdemeanour of the 3rd degree.

(d) (1) "Dwelling" means a building or structure, whether movable or immovable, or a portion thereof, which is used for lodging of persons, whether or not a person is actually present.

(2) "Highly secured premises" means a place to which access is limited to persons who have been issued a pass or other authorization for entry, and where security is maintained on a continuous basis.

(3) "Storage facility" means any building, vessel, vehicle, or aircraft used for the transportation of persons or property or for the storage of goods.

**231. Eavesdropping and surveillance**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, without the consent of the person harmed by the offence, he eavesdrops or conducts surveillance in the following circumstances:

(1) he eavesdrops on a private communication or conducts surveillance of a person in a place where he has a reasonable expectation of privacy, or in a place that is entirely his own.

(2) he intercepts, records, amplifies or transmits any communication, whether oral or by wire or other means, or any other activity occurring within a person's home or property.

(b) A person who continues a conversation knowing that it may be overheard or recorded by another person is deemed to have consented to the overhearing, recording, and disclosure of the information within the scope of that knowledge.

(c) A person is not guilty of an offence in the following circumstances:

(1) an agent or employee of a common carrier of communications who intercepts, discloses or uses a communication in the normal course of his employment while engaged in any activity which is a necessary incident to the rendition of his service or to the protection of the rights or property of the carrier of such communication.

(2) A party to a communication who:

(i) intercepts or records the communication in the reasonable belief that it will provide evidence of a crime; and

(ii) acts in good faith to expose wrongdoing.

(3) A law enforcement officer who intercepts and records communications under a warrant signed by the Minister of Home Affairs or the Minister of Defence and National Security.

(d) "Communication" means any sound, image, writing, sign, or information transmitted to another person by any means.

(e) This offence is a felony of the 5th degree.

**232. Unlawful obtaining of information**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) knowingly and without authorization; and

(2) obtains highly secured information or personal identifying information of another person.

(b) A person is not guilty of an offence in the following circumstances:

(1) he obtains personal identifying information of another person;

(2) in good faith to expose wrongdoing.

(c) (1) "Highly secured information" means information that is protected so that it is not available to persons other than those who are authorized to access it.

(2) "Personal identifying information" means information that a reasonable person would not wish to be made public.

(d) (1) Unlawful obtaining of highly secured information is a felony of a 5th degree.

(2) Unlawful obtaining of personal identifying information is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**233. Unlawful disclosure of information**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, knowing that certain information was obtained in a manner prohibited by section 231 or section 232 of this Act, or that the obtaining of the information was not authorized for another person, he discloses such information to another person.

(b) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**234. Definitions**

(a) "Communication" is given the meaning provided in section 231(d) of this Act.

(b) "Dwelling" is given the meaning provided in section 230(d)(1) of this Act.

(c) "Highly secured information" is given the meaning provided in section 232(c)(1) of this Act.

(d) "Highly secured premises" is given the meaning provided in section 230(d)(2) of this Act.

(e) "Inhabited structure" is given the meaning provided in section 221(b) of this Act.

(f) "Law enforcement officer" is given the meaning provided in section 521(d) of this Act.

(g) "Personal identifying information" is given the meaning provided in section 232(c)(2) of this Act.

(h) "Storage facility" is given the meaning provided in section 230(d)(3) of this Act.

### CHAPTER 310: FORGERY AND FRAUDULENT PRACTICES

**310. Forgery, fraudulent alteration, and related offences**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, with purpose to defraud or injure anyone, or with knowledge that he is facilitating a fraud or injury to be perpetrated by anyone, he knowingly:

(1) refers to or repeats a false written instrument or object described in subsection (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section, or asserts its genuineness.

(2) makes or alters any object or written instrument so that it purports to have been made by another, or at another time, or with different provisions, or by authority of one who did not give such authority.

(3) makes, completes, executes, authenticates, issues or transfers any writing so that it purports to be the act of another who did not authorize that act, or to have been executed at a time or place or in a numbered sequence other than was in fact the case, or to be a copy of an original when no such original existed.

(b) "Written instrument" means any paper, document or other instrument containing written or printed matter or the equivalent thereof, used for purposes of reciting, embodying, conveying or recording information, and any money, credit card, token, stamp, seal, badge, trademark, or other evidence or symbol of value, right, privilege or identification.

(c) (1) If the written instrument used as described in subsection (a)(1) of this section is used for any of the following purposes, the offence is a felony of the 4th degree:

(i) to create, terminate or alter a legal right, interest, obligation or status; or

(ii) to purport to be a public record, or an instrument issued by a public office or government agency.

(2) In other circumstances, the offence is a felony of the 5th degree.

**311. Tampering with writings, records, and other instruments**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, with purpose to defraud or injure anyone, or with knowledge that he is facilitating a fraud or injury to be perpetrated by anyone, he:

(1) knowingly destroys, removes or conceals any writing, record or other instrument; and

(2) does so without any reason or authorization.

(b) This offence is a felony of the 5th degree.

**312. Impersonation**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) acts with recklessness as to whether he will:

(i) cause injury to another; or

(ii) obtain a benefit to which he is not entitled; or

(iii) cause another person to believe that the actor is acting with official authority or legal power which he does not have; and

(2) he:

(i) impersonates another; or

(ii) makes, alters, sells, or gives any writing or other object so that it purports to be the act of another; or

(iii) buys any writing or other object so that it purports to be the act of another.

(b) For the purposes of subsection (a)(2)(ii) and (a)(2)(iii) of this section, identifying information includes a person's name, date of birth, an identification number or code issued to him, his financial information, and any other information that can be used to identify a specific person.

(c) (1) The offences described in subsection (a)(2)(ii) and (a)(2)(iii) of this section are felonies of the 5th degree.

(2) In other circumstances, the offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**313. Deceptive business practices**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, in the course of business, he:

(1) recklessly gives false information or information likely to cause a misunderstanding in connection with a transaction involving property or services; or

(2) knowingly deceives another by an act that is a clear violation of the generally accepted principles and standards of business conduct.

(b) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**314. Bribery and breach of duty to act disinterestedly**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) knowingly solicits, accepts or agrees to accept any benefit; and

(2) the benefit is in consideration of a violation of a duty of fidelity to which he is subject as:

(i) a partner, agent or employee of another; or

(ii) a trustee, guardian, or other fiduciary; or

(iii) a lawyer, physician, accountant, appraiser, or other professional adviser or informant; or

(iv) an officer, director, manager or other participant in the direction of the affairs of a corporation or unincorporated association; or

(v) an arbitrator or other disinterested adjudicator or referee, in a case in which he is not acting as a public servant.

(b) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) knowingly confers, or offers or agrees to confer, any benefit upon another; and

(2) the benefit is one which is prohibited from being accepted under subsection (a) of this section.

(c) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) holds himself out to the public as being engaged in the business of making disinterested selection, appraisal, or criticism of commodities or services; and

(2) knowingly solicits, accepts or agrees to accept any benefit to influence his selection, appraisal or criticism.

(d) The offences defined in this section are felonies of the 4th degree.

**315. Rigging publicly exhibited contests and public tenders**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, with purpose to prevent a publicly exhibited contest from being conducted in accordance with the rules and usages purporting to govern it, he:

(1) confers or offers or agrees to confer any benefit upon, or threatens any injury to, a participant, official or person who is associated with the contest; or

(2) tampers with any person, animal or thing associated with the contest; or

(3) a person who knowingly solicits, accepts or agrees to accept any benefit, the giving of which is a crime under subsection (a)(1) of this section; or

(4) knowingly violates a law intended to protect the integrity of the process by which bids are obtained or contracts are awarded in connection with a public tender; or

(5) he:

(i) provides financial assistance to a publicly exhibited contest, and participates in such contests as a judge or in any other capacity; and

(ii) does so knowing that the contest is being conducted in violation of the rules and usages purporting to govern it.

(b) "Benefit" means any gift, payment, or pecuniary advantage, whether tangible or intangible.

(c) (1) The offences described in subsections (a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(3) of this section are felonies of the 4th degree.

(2) The offence described in subsection (a)(4) of this section is a felony of the 5th degree.

**316. Defrauding secured creditors**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, with purpose to hinder the enforcement of a security interest or lien, he destroys, removes, conceals, encumbers, transfers or otherwise deals with property subject to the security interest or lien.

(b) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**317. Fraud in insolvency**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, knowing that proceedings have been or are about to be instituted for the appointment of a receiver or other person entitled to administer property for the benefit of creditors, or that any other composition or liquidation for the benefit of creditors has been or is about to be made, he:

(1) destroys, removes, conceals, encumbers, transfers or otherwise deals with any property with purpose to defeat or obstruct the claim of any creditor, or otherwise to obstruct the operation of any law relating to administration of property for the benefit of creditors; or

(2) knowingly falsifies any writing or record relating to the property; or

(3) knowingly withholds from a receiver or other person entitled to control of the property any writing or record relating to the property.

(b) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**318. Receiving deposits in a failing financial institution**

(a) A person who is an officer, manager or other person participating in the direction of a financial institution is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) knows that the institution is in substantial financial difficulty and that it is about to suspend its operations or to be placed in receivership or that its liquidation is about to be commenced; and

(2) is reckless as to whether the person making the deposit is aware of the institution's financial difficulties; and

(3) knowingly receives or permits the receipt of a deposit of funds or other investment into the institution.

(b) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**319. Selling the right to participate in a pyramid sales scheme**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he knowingly sells the right to participate in a pyramid sales scheme.

(b) "Pyramid sales scheme" means any plan or operation by which a participant gives a thing of value for the opportunity to receive a thing of value which is:

(1) derived from the introduction of other persons into the plan or operation; and

(2) not primarily related to the sale or rental of goods or services by the participant or other persons introduced into the plan or operation.

(c) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**320. Definitions**

(a) "Benefit" is given the meaning provided in section 315(b) of this Act.

(b) "Bodily injury" is given the meaning provided in section 17(7) of this Act.

(c) "Corporation" is given the meaning provided in section 70(c)(1) of this Act.

(d) "Deceptive business practices" is given the meaning provided in section 313(a) of this Act.

(e) "Fiduciary interest" is given the meaning provided in section 215(c)(3) of this Act.

(f) "Pyramid sales scheme" is given the meaning provided in section 319(b) of this Act.

(g) "Service" is given the meaning provided in section 214(b) of this Act.

(h) "Agent" is given the meaning provided in section 70(c)(4) of this Act.

(i) "Written instrument" is given the meaning provided in section 310(b) of this Act.

### CHAPTER 410: OFFENCES AGAINST THE FAMILY

**410. Bigamy and polygamy**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he commits any of the following acts:

(1) being married to four wives, or while one of his four wives is in her iddat, he contracts another marriage; or

(2) being married, or before the iddat of his divorced wife has expired, he marries another woman whom it is forbidden to marry while in the same marriage; or

(3) before her iddat has expired, a woman marries a man other than the one who divorced her; or

(4) a married woman contracts another marriage; or

(5) a woman who has been divorced three times marries the man who divorced her three times before her intervening marriage has been consummated; or

(6) a couple who have been separated by li'an remarry; or

(7) two persons who are permanently forbidden to marry each other under Islamic Shari'ah due to consanguinity, affinity, or fosterage, contract a marriage; or

(8) two persons of the same sex contract a marriage; or

(9) a woman marries a non-Muslim man; or

(10) a man marries a non-Muslim who is not one of the People of the Book.

(b) (1) "Iddat of a woman" means:

(i) if the divorced woman is of menstruating age, and she has had sexual intercourse with her husband at least once during the marriage, and she is not pregnant at the time of the divorce, the period until the completion of 3 menstruations and 3 periods of purity from the date of the divorce; or

(ii) if the divorced woman is not of menstruating age or has ceased to menstruate, and she has had sexual intercourse with her husband at least once during the marriage, the period until the completion of 3 lunar months from the date of the divorce; or

(iii) if the divorced woman is pregnant, the period until she gives birth, or if she is pregnant, the period until the pregnancy ends; or

(iv) if a woman's husband dies while she is married to him or is in the iddat of a revocable divorce, and she is not pregnant, the period until the completion of 4 lunar months and 10 days from the date of her husband's death.

(c) The offences defined in this section are misdemeanours of the 1st degree.

**411. Unlawful sexual relations**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he commits any of the following acts:

(1) Adultery (Zina);

(2) Homosexual intercourse.

(b) The offence defined in subsection (a) of this section is:

(1) if committed by a married person, a felony of the 5th degree;

(2) if committed by an unmarried person with a married person, a misdemeanour of the 1st degree;

(3) if committed by an unmarried person with an unmarried person, a misdemeanour of the 2nd degree;

(4) if committed by a person, whether married or unmarried, with a person with whom marriage is forbidden by reason of consanguinity, affinity, or fosterage, a felony of the 4th degree;

(5) if committed by a person who, though not forbidden to marry by reason of consanguinity, affinity, or fosterage, holds a special position of trust within a family and abuses that position, a felony of the 3rd degree.

(c) If the offence described in subsection (a)(1) of this section is proven by means other than the confession of the offender or the testimony of four witnesses, such as DNA evidence or the presumption of being in flagrante delicto, the offence is one degree lower than the grade otherwise applicable.

(d) In addition to the punishment authorized under Chapter 90 of this Act, a person who commits the offence described in subsection (a)(1) of this section shall be lashed with 100 lashes as a hadd prescribed in Islamic Shari'ah.

(e) If the offence described in subsection (a)(1) of this section is proven in the manner described in subsection (c) of this section, the punishment prescribed in subsection (d) of this section shall not be imposed.

(f) (1) "Adultery (Zina)" means the penetration, however slight, of the penis of a man into the vagina of a woman who is not his wife or a woman in the iddat of a revocable divorce from him.

(2) "Homosexual intercourse" means:

(i) the penetration, however slight, of the penis or any object into the anus of another man for the purpose of sexual gratification; or the insertion of the penis into the mouth of another man; or

(ii) the penetration, however slight, of a woman's sexual organ or any object into the vagina or anus of another woman for the purpose of sexual gratification.

(3) "Lashing" means striking a person with a leather whip or a scourge, in a manner not likely to cause serious bodily injury, as a symbolic punishment. When lashing, all the prescribed lashes shall be administered by one person. The person administering the lashing shall not bend his wrist, nor shall he apply any force from his elbow, shoulder, waist, back, leg or heel.

**412. Unlawful sexual conduct**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he commits any of the following acts:

(1) A married person who engages in sexual conduct with a person other than his spouse, is guilty of a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

(2) An unmarried person who engages in sexual conduct with a married person, is guilty of a misdemeanour of the 2nd degree.

(3) An unmarried person who engages in sexual conduct with an unmarried person, is guilty of a misdemeanour of the 3rd degree.

(4) A person who engages in a sexual act with an animal, is guilty of a felony of the 4th degree.

(5) A person, whether married or unmarried, who engages in sexual conduct with a person with whom marriage is forbidden by reason of consanguinity, affinity, or fosterage, is guilty of a felony of the 5th degree.

(6) A person who, though not permanently forbidden to marry by reason of consanguinity, affinity, or fosterage, holds a special position of trust within a family and abuses that position, is guilty of a felony of the 4th degree.

(b) A person is guilty of an offence if he engages in sexual conduct with a person of the same sex.

(c) "Unlawful sexual conduct" means any immoral act committed for the purpose of sexual gratification with a person of the same sex or with a person other than one's spouse or with an animal, which is not included in the two offences described in section 300(a) of this Act.

**413. Incest**

(a) A person who voluntarily engages in sexual intercourse or any other sexual act with a close relative commits an offence.

(b) (1) If the offender is the mother, father, grandmother, grandfather, great-grandmother, or great-grandfather of the person with whom he engaged in sexual intercourse or sexual conduct, it is a felony of the 3rd degree;

(2) In other circumstances, the offence described in subsection (a) of this section is a felony of the 4th degree;

(3) In addition to the punishment authorized under Chapter 90 of this Act, a person who commits this offence may be lashed with 19 lashes as provided in section 411(e)(3) of this Act.

(4) "Lashing" means striking a person with a leather whip or a scourge, not exceeding forty lashes, in a manner not likely to cause serious bodily injury, as provided in section 411(e)(4) of this Act.

(c) Even if the offender is not a person described in subsection (b)(1) of this section, if he holds a special position of trust within a family and abuses that position to commit the offence described in this section, he shall be sentenced to one grade higher than the presumptive sentence.

(d) (1) "Close relative" means a person related to another by any of the following relationships:

(i) mother or father, grandfather or grandmother, great-grandfather or great-grandmother; or

(ii) child or grandchild or great-grandchild; or

(iii) full sibling, half-sibling by mother, or half-sibling by father; or

(iv) maternal aunt, maternal great-aunt, paternal uncle, paternal great-uncle, or a female or male cousin through a paternal uncle; or

(v) father-in-law or mother-in-law, or wife's or husband's daughter or son; or

(vi) a brother or sister by fosterage; or

(2) a person to whom a relationship described in subsections (d)(i) to (d)(v) of this section is created by marriage.

**414. Non-support and abandonment**

(a) A person who is a mother, father, guardian, or person in whose charge a child is, or a person who has undertaken the care of a child, commits an offence if he:

(1) (i) in circumstances which are likely to endanger the child's health, safety, or welfare; and

(ii) being older than 18 years, abandons a child under 14 years of age for a period of 24 hours or more;

(2) being aware that it is likely that an offence described in Chapter 110, Chapter 120, or Chapter 130 of this Act will be committed against the child, fails to take reasonable measures to prevent the commission of such offence;

(3) fails to take the necessary steps to register the birth of the child.

(b) In determining whether a particular circumstance is one that is likely to endanger a child's health, safety, or welfare, a judge shall consider the following factors:

(1) the age of the child and his stage of development; and

(2) whether the abandonment was due to financial hardship or illness; and

(3) whether the person acted in good faith to provide for the child's health, safety, or welfare.

(c) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**415. Neglect**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, being able to provide support, he:

(1) fails to provide support to the following persons:

(i) his child under 18 years of age; or

(ii) his parent who is over 50 years of age or is disabled;

(iii) his disabled spouse; and

(2) he knows that the person described in subsection (a)(1) is in need of support; and

(a) is entitled to support under a court or administrative order, and has been in arrears for more than 6 months and the total amount in arrears exceeds MVR 1500/-;

(b) and has been in arrears for:

(1) more than 6 months; or

(2) a total amount exceeding MVR 1500/-.

(b) For the purposes of this section, "disabled" means a person who is physically or mentally unable to support himself by his own labor.

(c) This offence is a felony of the 5th degree.

**416. Interference with custody**

(a) A person commits an offence if, knowing that he has no legal right to do so, he takes or entices a child under 18 years of age from the custody of his parent, guardian or other lawful custodian:

(1) if the taking or enticing is done with the purpose of holding the child for a protracted period; or

(2) if the taking or enticing is done by a person who is not a close relative of the child; or

(3) if the taking or enticing is done by a person who is a close relative of the child, but the taking or enticing is done in a manner that creates a substantial risk of harm to the child's welfare.

(b) (1) A person who takes a child from the custody of another, knowing that he has no legal right to do so, commits a felony of the 4th degree if the taking is done with the purpose of holding the child for a protracted period.

(2) In other circumstances, the offence is a felony of the 5th degree.

**417. Definitions**

(a) "Close relative" is given the meaning provided in section 413(d) of this Act.

(b) "Incompetent" is given the meaning provided in section 27(d) of this Act.

(c) "Sexual act" is given the meaning provided in section 131(b) of this Act.

### CHAPTER 510: OFFENCES AGAINST PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION

#### Bribery and corrupt influence

**510. Bribery**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, being a public servant, he:

(1) and being a public servant; and

(2) knowingly solicits, accepts or agrees to accept, for himself or another, any benefit; and

(3) the benefit is not authorized by law and is in consideration of:

(i) his decision, opinion, recommendation, vote or other exercise of discretion as a public servant; or

(ii) his violation of a known legal duty as a public servant.

(b) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) knowingly offers, confers or agrees to confer upon a public servant any benefit; and

(2) the benefit is not authorized by law and is in consideration of:

(i) his decision, opinion, recommendation, vote or other exercise of discretion as a public servant; or

(ii) his violation of a known legal duty as a public servant.

(c) "Official capacity" refers to the acts and omissions of a public servant in the performance of his official duties under the authority of the state. It also refers to the exercise or non-exercise of a power vested in a public servant to confer or withhold a benefit to a particular person or group of persons.

(d) This offence is a felony of the 3rd degree.

**511. Threats and other improper influence in official and political matters**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, with purpose to influence a public servant's decision, opinion, recommendation, vote or other exercise of discretion in a judicial or administrative proceeding, he:

(1) threatens to commit an offence; or

(2) communicates with a public servant, directly or indirectly, in a manner prohibited by law.

(b) (1) The offence described in subsection (a)(1) of this section is a felony of the 4th degree.

(2) In other circumstances, it is a felony of the 5th degree.

**512. Unlawful official conduct**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, being a public servant, he knowingly:

(1) refrains from performing a duty which is imposed upon him by law; or

(2) does an act which he is forbidden by law to do.

(b) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

(c) The presumptive sentence in the sentencing guidelines of section 1004 of this Act for each offence defined in this section shall be increased by one grade if a public servant has committed the offence in consideration of a benefit to himself, a close relative, or a friend.

**513. Unlawful use of official position or information**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) being a public servant, makes unauthorized use of confidential information which has come to his knowledge in his official capacity; and

(2) does so with purpose to obtain a benefit for himself or for another person not entitled thereto.

(b) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) being a public servant, makes unauthorized use of his official position or the influence of his official position; and

(2) does so with purpose to obtain a benefit for himself or for another person not entitled thereto.

(c) This offence is a felony of the 4th degree.

**514. Unlawful disclosure of confidential information**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) knowing that he is violating a duty imposed upon him as a public servant; and

(2) discloses confidential information which has come to his knowledge in his official capacity.

(b) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**515. Definitions**

(a) "Benefit" is given the meaning provided in section 315(b) of this Act.

(b) "Official capacity" is given the meaning provided in section 510(c) of this Act.

(c) "Government agent" is given the meaning provided in section 533(b) of this Act.

#### Perjury and other falsification in official matters

**520. Perjury**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, in any official proceeding, he makes a false statement under oath or equivalent affirmation, or swears or affirms the truth of a statement previously made, when the statement is made with disbelief in its truth.

(b) A person is not guilty of an offence in the following circumstances:

(1) he retracts the false statement in the course of the same proceeding in which it was made;

(2) he does so before it becomes manifest that the falsity has been or will be exposed; and

(3) the retraction is made before the false statement has substantially affected the proceeding.

(c) It is not a defence to a prosecution under this section that the oath or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner or that the declarant was incompetent to make the statement. A document is deemed to have been made by the declarant under oath or affirmation if he has sworn or affirmed that it was so made.

(d) No person shall be convicted of an offence under this section where proof of falsity rests solely upon contradiction by the testimony of a single person.

(e) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

(f) "Official proceeding" means a proceeding heard or which may be heard before a legislative, judicial, administrative or other governmental agency or official authorized to take evidence under oath, including a referee, hearing examiner, commissioner, notary or other person taking testimony or depositions in connection with any such proceeding.

**521. Falsification to public officers**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, with purpose to mislead a public servant or a law enforcement officer in performing his official function, he:

(1) makes a written false statement which he does not believe to be true; or

(2) knowingly creates a false impression by a written statement, which he does not believe to be true, by omitting information which he knows to be necessary to prevent the statement from being misleading.

(b) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) makes a false statement; and

(2) he does not believe it to be true; and

(3) the statement is made with purpose to mislead a public servant or a law enforcement officer in performing his official function.

(c) It is not an offence under this section if the false statement or writing is not one which is likely to substantially affect the official proceeding.

(d) "Law enforcement officer" means any person who, by virtue of his office or public employment, is vested by law with a duty to maintain public order and to make arrests for offences.

(e) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**522. False alarms to agencies of public safety**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) knowingly gives false information to a law enforcement officer concerning an alleged offence or a other incident within his official concern when he knows that the information is false; and

(2) does so with purpose to implicate another.

(b) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) reports to a law enforcement agency an offence or other incident within its concern, knowing that it did not occur; or

(2) pretends to furnish such agency with information relating to an offence or incident when he has no information relating to such offence or incident.

(c) (1) If the information is such that it could lead to the conviction of another person for a felony:

(i) and a felony of the 3rd degree or higher is thereby proven, the person giving the information commits a felony of the 3rd degree.

(ii) in other circumstances, it is a felony of a 5th degree.

(d) The offence described in subsection (b) of this section is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**523. False reports to agencies of public safety**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) knowingly gives a false report of a fire or other emergency; and

(2) does so to an agency which is responsible for dealing with emergencies involving danger to life or property.

(b) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 2nd degree.

**524. Definitions**

(a) "Law enforcement officer" is given the meaning provided in section 521(d) of this Act.

(b) "Official proceeding" is given the meaning provided in section 520(e) of this Act.

### CHAPTER 530: OBSTRUCTION OF GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS AND ESCAPE

**530. Obstructing administration of justice**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, with purpose to obstruct, impair or prevent the administration of justice, he knowingly:

(1) furnishes a person with information that a warrant has been issued or that an arrest is impending; or

(2) destroys, alters, conceals or removes any record, document or thing, whether or not it is admissible in evidence, or makes, presents or uses any record, document or thing knowing it to be false; or

(3) induces or attempts to induce a witness or informant to testify or inform falsely or to withhold any testimony or information; or

(4) induces or attempts to induce a witness to elude legal process summoning him to testify or supply evidence; or

(5) absents himself from any proceeding to which he has been legally summoned.

(6) A person is not guilty of an offence under subsection (a)(1) of this section if his purpose is to advise a person to act in conformity with law.

(b) This offence is a felony of the 4th degree.

**531. Failure to report an accident**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) is involved in an accident involving a land or sea vehicle; and

(2) fails to report the accident to the relevant authorities.

(b) (1) If the accident resulted in serious bodily injury to a person, the offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

(2) In other circumstances, the offence is a misdemeanour of the 2nd degree.

**532. Resisting arrest or other law enforcement**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) knowingly resists, obstructs or interferes with a person whom he knows or has reason to know is a law enforcement officer or a custodian of a detention facility; and

(2) the officer is engaged in the performance of an official function.

(b) "Custodian of a detention facility" means:

(1) an elected or appointed officer, trustee or employee of a correctional facility, or an employee of an agency responsible for the operation of a correctional facility; or

(2) an employee of a mental health facility or a centre for the treatment of mental disorders who is responsible for the control and supervision of persons committed to such a facility or for the control and supervision of persons who are in the custody of such a facility for the purpose of being sent to such a facility.

(c) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**533. Hindering apprehension or prosecution**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, with purpose to hinder the apprehension, prosecution, conviction or punishment of another for an offence, he:

(1) harbors or conceals the other; or

(2) provides or aids in providing a weapon, transportation, disguise or other means of avoiding apprehension or effecting escape; or

(3) conceals or destroys evidence of the offence, or tampers with a witness, informant, document or other source of information, regardless of its admissibility in evidence; or

(4) warns the other of impending discovery or apprehension, except that this paragraph does not apply to a warning given in connection with an effort to bring another into compliance with law; or

(5) volunteers false information to a law enforcement officer.

(b) It is not an offence under this section if the other person is the spouse, parent, grandparent, child, brother or sister of the actor.

(c) (1) If the offence for which the other person is sought is a felony, the offence is a felony of the 5th degree.

(2) In other circumstances, the offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**534. Aiding consummation of crime**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he purposely aids another to profit from an offence.

(b) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 2nd degree.

**535. Compounding**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) accepts or agrees to accept any pecuniary benefit in consideration of refraining from reporting an offence to law enforcement authorities; or

(2) confers or offers or agrees to confer any pecuniary benefit upon another in consideration of his refraining from reporting an offence to law enforcement authorities.

(b) It is a defence to a prosecution under this section that the pecuniary benefit did not exceed an amount which the actor believed to be due as restitution or indemnification for harm caused by the offence.

(c) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 3rd degree.

**536. Escape**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) escapes from official detention; or

(2) fails to return to official detention following temporary leave granted for a specific purpose or limited period.

(b) "Official detention" means arrest, detention in any facility for custody of persons under charge or conviction of crime or alleged or found to be delinquent, detention for extradition or deportation, or any other detention for law enforcement purposes; but "official detention" does not include supervision of probation or parole, or constraint incidental to release on bail.

(c) (1) If the actor was in custody on a charge of felony, the offence is a felony of the 4th degree.

(2) In other circumstances, the offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**537. Implements for escape; other contraband**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) knowingly introduces or possesses in a correctional facility any weapon, tool, explosive, intoxicant or other article which may be used by an inmate to endanger the safety of any person or the security of the facility; or

(2) being a person in official detention, knowingly procures, makes or otherwise provides himself with, or has in his possession, any such article.

(b) (1) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(i) knowingly introduces into a correctional facility any money or other article which is not authorized by the person in charge of the facility; or

(ii) being a person in official detention, knowingly procures, makes or otherwise provides himself with, or has in his possession, any such article.

(2) "Correctional facility" means any place used for the confinement of persons charged with or convicted of an offence.

(c) (1) An offence under subsection (a) of this section is a felony of the 4th degree.

(2) An offence under subsection (b) of this section is a misdemeanour of the 2nd degree.

**538. Bail jumping; failure to appear**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, having been released from custody by court order, with or without bail, upon condition that he will subsequently appear at a specified time and place, he fails to appear at that time and place.

(b) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree if the required appearance was in connection with a charge of felony. In other circumstances, it is a misdemeanour of the 2nd degree.

**539. Contraband**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) knowingly brings into a correctional facility any contraband; or

(2) being an inmate, knowingly makes, obtains or possesses any contraband.

(b) "Contraband" means:

(1) any firearm, stun gun, taser gun;

(2) any ammunition, cartridge, shell, or other thing that can be used as ammunition;

(3) any destructive substance;

(4) any controlled substance;

(5) any drug paraphernalia;

(6) any dangerous weapon or other article which is readily capable of being used as a dangerous weapon;

(7) any weapon or instrument which is designed to or is readily capable of being used to defeat security measures; including handcuffs, keys to security restraints, or other articles which can be used to open locks, or articles which can be used to pick the lock of a cell door, gate, room, or other area of a correctional facility;

(8) any cutting or piercing instrument; including a saw, cutter, or other article capable of cutting metal; or

(9) any electronic device which is prohibited by the rules of the correctional facility; including an electronic recording device, video recording device, cellular telephone, cellular telephone battery, video tape recorder, pager, computer, or computer equipment;

(10) any alcoholic beverage; and

(11) any other article which is prohibited by law or by order of the correctional facility.

(c) (1) (i) Bringing into a correctional facility any contraband described in subsections (b)(1) to (b)(4) of this section is a felony of the 4th degree.

(ii) Bringing into a correctional facility any contraband described in subsections (b)(5) to (b)(10) of this section is a felony of the 5th degree.

(iii) In other circumstances, the offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

(2) If the offence is committed by an employee of the correctional facility, the sentence shall be increased by one grade.

**540. Intimidating a witness, victim or informant**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, with purpose to hinder, delay or prevent the communication to a law enforcement officer or judge of information relating to the commission or possible commission of an offence or a violation of conditions of probation, parole, or release pending judicial proceedings, he:

(1) harms another person by an act which is not in itself an offence; or

(2) threatens to harm another person by an act which is not in itself an offence.

(b) (1) The offence described in subsections (a)(1) to (a)(3) of this section is a felony of the 5th degree.

(2) In other circumstances, the offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**541. Failure to appear in court**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, having been released from custody by court order, with or without bail, upon condition that he will subsequently appear at a specified time and place, he fails to appear at that time and place.

(b) This offence is one grade lower than the offence for which he was in custody. However, this offence shall not be of a higher grade than a misdemeanour of the 2nd degree.

**542. Definitions**

(a) "Bodily injury" is given the meaning provided in section 17(7) of this Act.

(b) "Destructive substance" is given the meaning provided in section 121(c)(1) of this Act.

(c) "Correctional facility officer" is given the meaning provided in section 538(b) of this Act.

(d) "Correctional facility" is given the meaning provided in section 537(b) of this Act.

(e) "Custodian of a detention facility" is given the meaning provided in section 532(b) of this Act.

(f) "Dangerous weapon" is given the meaning provided in section 120(d)(1) of this Act.

(g) "Firearm" is given the meaning provided in section 710(d)(4) of this Act.

(h) "Government agent" is given the meaning provided in section 533(b) of this Act.

(i) "Contraband" is given the meaning provided in section 539(b) of this Act.

(j) "Law enforcement officer" is given the meaning provided in section 521(d) of this Act.

(k) "Official custody" is given the meaning provided in section 537(b)(1) of this Act.

(l) "Property" is given the meaning provided in section 17(82) of this Act.

### CHAPTER 610: OFFENCES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER, SAFETY AND MORALS

#### Offences against public order and safety

**610. Riot and insurrection**

(a) A person who promotes, aids or participates in a riot or an insurrection commits an offence.

(b) A person who participates in a peaceful assembly does not commit an offence.

(c) (1) A person who encourages, commands, instructs or otherwise induces two or more persons to overthrow the government by force is guilty of a felony of the 5th degree.

(2) A person who encourages, commands, instructs or otherwise induces the following persons to riot is guilty of a felony of the 3rd degree:

(i) two or more persons; or

(ii) a unit of the armed forces of the Maldives.

(3) A person who participates in the overthrow of the government by force is guilty of a felony of the 4th degree.

(4) In other circumstances, the offence is a felony of the 5th degree.

(d) (1) If a person commits an act described in subsections (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section while being a leader in a riot or insurrection, his sentence shall be one grade higher than the presumptive sentence.

(2) If a person commits an offence defined in this section in a riot or insurrection, and he knew or should have known before he arrived at the scene that such an event would occur, his sentence shall be one grade higher than the presumptive sentence.

**611. Mercenaries**

(a) A person who recruits, uses, finances or trains mercenaries commits an offence.

(b) A "mercenary" is any person who:

(1) is specially recruited locally or abroad in order to fight in an armed conflict; and

(2) is motivated to take part in the hostilities essentially by the desire for private gain and, in fact, is promised, by or on behalf of a Party to the conflict, material compensation substantially in excess of that promised or paid to combatants of similar ranks and functions in the armed forces of that Party; and

(3) is neither a national of a Party to the conflict nor a resident of territory controlled by a Party to the conflict; and

(4) (i) is not a member of the armed forces of a Party to the conflict; and

(ii) has not been sent by a State which is not a Party to the conflict on official duty as a member of its armed forces.

(c) This offence is a felony of the 3rd degree.

**612. Qazf (false accusation of Zina)**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) falsely accuses another person of committing or having committed the offence of Zina as defined in section 411 of this Act.

(b) (1) This offence is a felony of the 4th degree.

(2) In addition to the punishment authorized under Chapter 90 of this Act, a person who commits this offence may be lashed with 80 lashes as provided in section 411(e)(3) of this Act.

**613. Unlicensed business, import without license, and acts requiring a permit done without a permit**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) without obtaining the required permit or license from the relevant government authorities; and

(2) engages in a business regulated by law, or imports goods into the country.

(b) A person who does an act for which a permit is required from a relevant government authority, without obtaining such permit, commits an offence.

(c) (1) If, in the commission of an offence described in subsection (a) of this section, a person imports a firearm or a destructive substance into the country, he commits a felony of the 5th degree.

(2) If, as provided in subsection (a) of this section, a person manufactures, trades in, or distributes alcohol or pork in the course of business or import, he commits a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

(3) In other circumstances, an unlicensed business is a misdemeanour of the 2nd degree.

(4) The offence described in subsection (b) of this section is a misdemeanour of the 2nd degree.

**614. Entering the Special Economic Zone of the Maldives**

(a) A person who enters the Special Economic Zone of the Maldives without a permit or license commits an offence.

(b) (1) If a person enters the Special Economic Zone of the Maldives without a permit or license for the purpose of fishing, the offence he commits is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

(2) In other circumstances, the offence is a misdemeanour of the 2nd degree.

(c) "Special Economic Zone of the Maldives" means the area of the sea adjacent to and beyond the territorial sea of the Maldives and extending to a distance of 200 nautical miles from the baseline from which the breadth of the territorial sea is measured. It includes the living and non-living resources, economic resources, and the right of the Maldives to conduct scientific research, control pollution, and other related matters within this zone.

**615. Public nuisance**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, in a public place, he engages in any of the following acts, knowing that his conduct is likely to cause annoyance, inconvenience or alarm to another person:

(1) engaging in fighting, threatening, violent or tumultuous behavior; or

(2) making unreasonable noise; or

(3) using abusive or obscene language, or making an obscene gesture; or

(4) without lawful purpose, obstructs vehicular or pedestrian traffic; or

(5) solicits sexual conduct; or

(6) creates a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act which serves no legitimate purpose of the actor.

(b) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 3rd degree.

**616. Not fasting during Ramadan, drinking alcohol, and eating pork**

(a) A Maldivian citizen who commits any of the following acts in the following manner commits an offence:

(1) not fasting during the month of Ramadan, or breaking the fast while fasting, without a valid religious, medical, or health-related reason; or

(2) (i) eating pork or products made with pork; or

(ii) drinking alcohol.

(b) (1) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 3rd degree.

(2) In addition to the punishment authorized under Chapter 90 of this Act, a person who commits the offence described in subsection (a)(2)(ii) of this section may be lashed with 40 lashes as provided in section 411(e)(3) of this Act.

**617. Acts contrary to Islam**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he commits any of the following acts:

(1) using a means of communication or in public, criticizing Islam with the intent to insult Islam, or making a religious speech; or

(2) with the intent to insult Islam, preparing, distributing, selling, or producing writings that criticize Islam; or

(3) producing, possessing, keeping, giving, selling, distributing, or bringing into the Maldives pornographic material; or

(4) producing, possessing, keeping, giving, selling, distributing, or bringing into the Maldives an idol for worship; or

(5) working to undermine the religious unity of the Maldivian people, or speaking in a manner that creates religious division among the people, or acting in such a manner.

(b) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**618. Duty to render aid**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, being able to provide assistance, he:

(1) (i) fails to give a warning of a known danger, without a valid reason, to a person in danger; or

(ii) fails to provide assistance, without a valid reason, to a person in need of assistance; and

(2) he is in a position to provide assistance or give a warning; and

(i) he can do so without any physical danger to himself or another; and

(ii) he is not required to neglect a higher duty imposed on him by law or by agreement.

(b) (1) For the purposes of this Act, "person in danger" means:

(i) a person who is in danger due to bodily injury, illness, or a natural disaster; and

(ii) a person who is facing a violent offence.

(2) "Person in need of assistance" means:

(i) a person who has suffered bodily harm due to injury, illness, or a natural disaster; or

(ii) a person who has been the victim of a violent offence.

(c) A person who renders assistance or gives a warning under this section is immune from civil liability for any harm caused by his act, provided that he acted in good faith and within the reasonable standards of care, and in accordance with the standards of care and assistance required in the circumstances.

(d) Unless proven otherwise, a person is presumed to have failed to provide assistance to a person in need of assistance if:

(1) he had control of a working telephone or radio, or had access to one;

(2) he had no reason to believe that medical personnel or law enforcement officers had been notified of the emergency;

(3) he did not notify medical personnel or law enforcement officers of the emergency.

(e) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 3rd degree.

**619. Definitions**

(a) "Special Economic Zone of the Maldives" is given the meaning provided in section 614(c) of this Act.

(b) "Mercenary" is given the meaning provided in section 611(b) of this Act.

(c) "Sexual act" is given the meaning provided in section 131(b) of this Act.

### CHAPTER 620: OFFENCES AGAINST SOCIAL NORMS

**620. Prostitution**

(a) A person who engages in or agrees or offers to engage in sexual intercourse or a sexual act with another person in return for a fee or a thing of value commits an offence.

(b) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**621. Aiding and encouraging prostitution**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, in return for a fee or a thing of value, he:

(1) compels another to engage in an act or acts of prostitution; or

(2) encourages, arranges, or otherwise facilitates the commission of an act or acts of prostitution; or

(3) permits a place under his control to be used for the commission of an act or acts of prostitution.

(b) (1) If a person encourages or aids a minor to engage in an act of prostitution, he commits a felony of the 3rd degree.

(2) In other circumstances, it is a felony of the 4th degree.

**622. Obscene material**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, knowing its obscene character, he:

(1) sells, delivers, or provides any photograph, writing, picture, record, or other representation or description of the obscene; or

(2) presents or directs an obscene play, dance, or other performance, or participates in that portion thereof which makes it obscene; or

(3) publishes, exhibits or otherwise makes available any obscene material; or

(4) for a fee, performs any obscene act, or exhibits his body in an obscene manner; or

(5) advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented or held out by him to be obscene; or

(6) creates, buys, procures or possesses a mold, plate or other object designed or adapted to producing items which are obscene in character, for purposes of sale or distribution in violation of this section.

(b) It is a defence to a prosecution under subsections (a)(1) to (a)(6) of this section that the material was disseminated in the course of a scientific or other justified purpose to an institution or person having a proper interest in such material.

(c) If a person creates, buys, procures, or possesses a mold, plate, or other object designed or adapted to produce additional copies of obscene material, it is presumed that he did so for the purpose of public dissemination, unless proven otherwise.

(d) Material or a performance is "obscene" if, considered as a whole, its predominant appeal is to prurient interest, that is, a shameful or morbid interest in nudity, sex or excretion, and if in addition it goes substantially beyond customary limits of candor in describing or representing such matters.

(e) (1) The offences described in subsections (a)(1) to (a)(6) of this section are misdemeanours of the 1st degree.

(2) In other circumstances, the offence is a misdemeanour of the 2nd degree.

(3) If the obscene material or performance involves the following persons, the grade of the offence shall be increased by 2 grades:

(i) a minor; or

(ii) a person who is incompetent to understand the nature of the act.

**623. Abuse of a corpse**

(a) Except as authorized by law, a person who treats a corpse in a way that he knows would outrage ordinary family sensibilities commits an offence.

(b) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 2nd degree.

**624. Sale of human body parts**

(a) A person who knowingly sells or buys any part of a human body commits an offence.

(b) A person does not commit an offence in the following circumstances:

(1) property or money given as reimbursement for the expenses incurred in the removal of a human body part or body fluid for a scientific or medical purpose; or

(2) property or money given to a person under a medical treatment project or an insurance project; or

(3) property or money given as reimbursement for the reasonable expenses incurred in the transportation, removal, and storage of a human body part or fluid for a scientific purpose; or

(4) the sale or purchase of a drug, reagent, or other substance produced from a human body part for use in scientific or medical analysis, medical treatment, or diagnosis.

(c) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

**625. Cruelty to animals**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if, by his negligence, he:

(1) cruelly treats an animal; or

(2) abandons an animal in his custody.

(b) Conduct which is in accord with the accepted standards of a scientific experiment or which is in accord with the accepted standards of veterinary practice is not an offence.

(c) This offence is a misdemeanour of the 3rd degree.

**626. Definitions**

(a) "Obscene" is given the meaning provided in section 622(d) of this Act.

(b) "Sexual act" is given the meaning provided in section 131(b) of this Act.

(c) "Adultery (Zina)" is given the meaning provided in section 411(e)(1) of this Act.

### CHAPTER 710: OFFENCES INVOLVING WEAPONS

**710. Use of a dangerous weapon in the commission of an offence**

(a) A person who uses or displays a dangerous weapon in the commission of an offence commits an offence.

(b) (1) If a person discharges a firearm in the commission of an offence, he commits a felony of the 3rd degree.

(2) In other circumstances, it is a felony of the 4th degree.

(c) If a person uses an automatic or semi-automatic firearm in the commission of an offence, the offence is one grade higher than it would otherwise be.

(d) (1) "Automatic firearm" means a firearm designed to fire a succession of shots or bullets by a single pull of the trigger.

(2) "Automatic loading" means a mechanism that feeds ammunition into the chamber of a firearm without manual assistance.

(3) "Dangerous weapon":

(i) is given the meaning provided in section 120(d)(1) of this Act; and

(ii) includes a firearm, a device designed to propel a projectile, a pneumatic gun, a spring gun, a paintball gun, a BB gun, a stun gun or taser, a sharp weapon, a club, a knife, a razor blade, and similar objects.

(4) "Firearm" means a weapon from which a projectile is discharged by an explosive, and which has a barrel of less than 60 inches in length.

(5) "Semi-automatic firearm" means a firearm designed to fire a single shot or bullet for each single pull of the trigger.

(e) If the offence is committed between sunset and sunrise, the sentence may be increased by one grade from the presumptive sentence in the sentencing guidelines of section 1002 of this Act.

**711. Sale, manufacture, transfer and possession of a firearm or destructive substance**

(a) A person who, without a license or the express permission of the government, knowingly:

(1) manufactures, possesses, sells, gives to another person, transports, or deals in any destructive substance; or

(2) manufactures or deals in firearms; or

(3) gives a firearm to another person or sells a firearm to another person; or

(4) possesses a firearm.

(b) Unless proven otherwise:

(1) If a person possesses more than 2 firearms, he is presumed to fall within the scope of subsection (a)(2) of this section.

(2) If a person possesses more than 3 firearms, he is presumed to fall within the scope of subsection (a)(3) of this section.

(c) In addition to the offence defined in section 613 of this Act:

(1) The offences described in subsections (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section are felonies of the 4th degree.

(2) The offence described in subsection (a)(3) of this section is a felony of the 5th degree.

(3) In other circumstances, the offence is a misdemeanour of the 1st degree.

(d) If the dangerous weapon possessed includes an automatic or semi-automatic firearm, the sentence for the offence shall be increased by one grade.

**712. Definitions**

(1) "Automatic firearm" is given the meaning provided in section 710(d)(1) of this Act.

(2) "Automatic loading" is given the meaning provided in section 710(d)(2) of this Act.

(3) "Destructive substance" is given the meaning provided in section 121(c)(1) of this Act.

(4) "Dangerous weapon" is given the meaning provided in section 120(d)(1) of this Act.

(5) "Firearm" is given the meaning provided in section 710(d)(4) of this Act.

(6) "Semi-automatic firearm" is given the meaning provided in section 710(d)(5) of this Act.

### CHAPTER 720: TERRORISM AND ORGANIZED CRIME

**720. Participating in a criminal street gang**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) participates in the operation of a criminal street gang; or

(2) recruits another person to join a criminal street gang; or

(3) provides material or financial assistance to a criminal street gang; or

(4) uses or invests the proceeds of the activities of a criminal street gang in another enterprise; or

(5) in any way controls the activities of a criminal street gang, or directs how its activities should be carried out.

(b) (1) "Criminal street gang" means:

(i) a group of persons who are associated for a common purpose and:

(a) have committed two or more acts of violence, destruction, or threats thereof as part of a plan or purpose carried out by the members of the gang or by persons associated with the gang; or

(b) have committed two or more acts which are defined as trafficking in drugs or transporting drugs from one place to another for the purpose of trafficking, by the members of the gang or by persons associated with the gang; or

(c) have publicly announced or accepted that the commission of such offences, or the threat of their commission, is the purpose or objective of the gang; or

(ii) a group which has been designated by the government as a terrorist organization or a criminal street gang.

(2) "Material support" means the provision of financial services, lodging, training, false documentation or identification, communications equipment, weapons, other lethal substances, explosives, transportation, and other physical assets and assistance. It does not include the provision of medicine or religious materials.

(c) (1) If the offender knows that the group is a criminal street gang:

(i) the offence described in subsection (a)(5) of this section is a felony of the 2nd degree; and

(ii) the offences described in subsections (a)(1) to (a)(4) of this section are felonies of the 3rd degree.

(2) If a person is reckless as to whether the group is a criminal street gang, the offence described in subsection (a)(5) of this section is a felony of the 3rd degree.

(3) In other circumstances, the offence is a felony of the 4th degree.

**721. Money laundering**

(a) A person is guilty of an offence if he:

(1) conducts a financial transaction involving the proceeds of an unlawful activity, knowing that the property involved in the financial transaction represents the proceeds of some form of unlawful activity; and

(2) the purpose of the financial transaction is:

(i) to promote the carrying on of unlawful activity; or

(ii) to conceal or disguise the nature, location, source, ownership, or control of the proceeds of unlawful activity; or

(iii) to avoid a transaction reporting requirement under law.

(b) (1) "Financial transaction" means any transaction which in any way or degree affects commerce and:

(i) involves the movement of funds by wire or other means; or

(ii) involves one or more monetary instruments; or

(iii) involves the transfer of title to any real property, vehicle, vessel, or aircraft.

(2) "Monetary instrument" means:

(i) the coin or currency of the Maldives or of any other country, traveler's checks, bank checks, and money orders; or

(ii) investment securities or negotiable instruments, in bearer form or otherwise in such form that title thereto passes upon delivery.

(c) This offence is a felony of the 4th degree.

**722. Definitions**

(a) "Criminal street gang" is given the meaning provided in section 720(b)(1) of this Act.

(b) "Financial transaction" is given the meaning provided in section 721(b)(1) of this Act.

(c) "Material support" is given the meaning provided in section 720(b)(2) of this Act.

(d) "Monetary instrument" is given the meaning provided in section 721(b)(2) of this Act.

### PART III: SENTENCING

**1000. Compliance with sentencing principles**

(a) Before imposing sentence, the court shall determine the sentence for the offence in accordance with this chapter and other sections of this Act. The judge shall include in the report of the case the manner in which the sentence was determined.

(b) To ensure uniformity in the principles applied by the court in determining sentences under this Act, the highest court in the Maldives at the time shall, at least once every 1 or 2 years, review and revise the sentencing guidelines.

**1001. Determination of sentence**

(a) The court shall determine the sentence for an offence in accordance with the "Sentencing Guidelines Table" in section 1002 of this Act, as follows:

(1) After determining the grade of the offence as provided in Parts 1 and 2 of this Act, the court shall determine the "presumptive sentence" cell (from right to left) in the column (from top to bottom) for that grade of offence in the "Sentencing Guidelines Table" in section 1002 of this Act.

(2) In determining the factors to be considered in sentencing, the court shall have regard to the following:

(i) the matters stated in Parts 1 and 2 of this Act to be considered in sentencing for the offence for which the person was convicted; and

(ii) the aggravating and mitigating factors provided in section 1100 of this Act; (and other special circumstances not included in the matters to be considered in sentencing as provided in subsection (1) of this section) and

(iii) if a matter to be considered in sentencing is proven by clear evidence; and

(iv) the netting of aggravating and mitigating factors to determine the final sentence; and

(v) the cell in the "Sentencing Guidelines Table" in section 1002 of this Act that corresponds to the sentence to be imposed, after netting the aggravating and mitigating factors, is the sentence to be imposed for that offence.

(b) The sentence to be imposed for an offence is the sentence stated in the cell determined after taking into account the column for the grade of the offence as provided in subsection (a) of this section, and after making the necessary adjustments to the sentence as provided in subsection (b) of this section.

**1002. Sentencing guidelines table**

(a) The court shall determine the sentence in accordance with section 1003 of this Act and the following table:

| Felony of the 1st degree | Felony of the 2nd degree | Felony of the 3rd degree | Felony of the 4th degree | Felony of the 5th degree | Misdemeanour of the 1st degree | Misdemeanour of the 2nd degree | Misdemeanour of the 3rd degree | Maximum sentence |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| +6 | 25 Y | 15 Y | 8 Y | 4 Y | 2 Y, 6 M | 1 Y | 6 M | 3 M |
| +5 | 22 Y, 6 M | 13 Y, 6 M | 7 Y, 2 M | 3 Y, 7 M | 2 Y | 9 M | 5 M, 18 D | 2 M, 21 D |
| +4 | 20 Y | 12 Y | 6 Y, 4 M | 3 Y, 2 M | 1 Y, 6 M | 9 M | 4 M, 24 D | 2 M, 12 D |
| +3 | 17 Y, 6 M | 10 Y, 6 M | 5 Y, 6 M | 2 Y, 8 M | 1 Y, 4 M | 8 M | 4 M, 6 D | 2 M, 3 D |
| +2 | 15 Y | 9 Y | 4 Y, 9 M | 2 Y, 4 M | 1 Y, 2 M | 7 M, 6 D | 3 M, 18 D | 1 M, 24 D |
| +1 | 12 Y, 6 M | 7 Y, 6 D | 4 Y | 2 Y | 1 Y | 6 M | 3 M | 1 M, 15 D |
| Presumptive Sentence | 10 Y | 6 Y | 3 Y, 6 M | 1 Y, 7 M | 9 M | 4 M, 12 D | 2 M, 12 D | 1 M |
| -1 | 7 Y, 6 M | 4 Y, 6 D | 3 Y | 1 Y, 7 M | 6 M, 18 D | 3 M, 24 D | 1 M, 27 D | 27 D |
| -2 | 5 Y | 3 M | 2 Y, 9 M | 1 Y | 6 M | 3 M | 1 M, 18 D | 18 D |
| -3 | 2 Y, 6 M | 1 Y, 6 M | 1 Y, 9 M | 9 M | 4 M, 18 D | 2 M, 24 D | 1 M, 12 D | 9 D |

(b) Calculation of time

For the purposes of this Act, periods of punishment shall be calculated from the first day of the sentence for the last offence, including any other sentences being served up to that day.

(1) "Y" (Year): A year is 365 days.

(2) "M" (Month): A month is 30 days.

(3) "D" (Day): A day is 24 hours.

**1003. Departure from the sentencing guidelines**

(a) The court is not required to impose a sentence within the sentencing guidelines. The court has the discretion to impose any sentence authorized by law that is consistent with the general purposes stated in section 11 of this Act.

(b) However, if the court imposes a sentence that is 2 or more levels higher than the sentence provided for that offence in the "Sentencing Guidelines Table" in section 1002 of this Act, the judge shall include in the report of the case the reasons for departing from the sentencing guidelines.

(c) If the court departs from the sentencing guidelines, the following shall apply:

(1) If the court imposes a sentence that is 2 or more levels higher than the sentencing guidelines, the offender has the right to appeal the sentence to the High Court of the Maldives.

(2) If the court imposes a sentence that is 2 or more levels lower than the sentencing guidelines, the State has the right to appeal the sentence to a higher court of the Maldives.

(d) If the court has erred in determining the grade of the offence or has made a legal error in determining the sentence, the State and the offender have the right to appeal the determination or the decision to the High Court of the Maldives.

**1004. Alternative sentencing**

(a) The "Sentencing Guidelines Table" in section 1002 of this Act provides the maximum term of imprisonment that may be imposed for an offence. However, a sentence of the same duration as the term of imprisonment may be imposed by combining other forms of punishment, or a sentence of the same duration as the maximum term of imprisonment may be imposed after combining different types of punishment. The duration and type of sentence imposed in this manner shall be in accordance with the "Alternative Sentencing Table" in section 1005 of this Act.

**1005. Sentencing table**

(a) The court has the discretion to impose different types of punishment, provided that the total duration of the sentence does not exceed the duration prescribed for that offence, in accordance with the "Alternative Sentencing Table" in this section.

| Imprisonment | House Arrest | Community Service | Probation | Fine (the greater of the two amounts) | Close Supervision |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| 1 Year | 2 Years | 1920 Hours | 72,000 R, or 6 months' income | 4 Years | 6 Years |
| 6 Months | 1 Year | 960 Hours | 36,000 R, or 3 months' income | 3 Years | 2 Years |
| 3 Months | 6 Months | 480 Hours | 18,000 R, or 1.5 months' income | 2 Years | 1.5 Years |
| 1 Month | 2 Months | 160 Hours | 6,000 R, or 1 month's income | 6 Years | 4 Years |
| 15 Days | 40 Days | 40 Hours | 1,400 R, or 7 days' income | 1 Months | 1.5 Months |

(b) House arrest

House arrest is the confinement of the offender in his home or in a place other than a correctional facility. A person under house arrest shall not leave the place of his confinement in violation of the rules. If he does so, he may be subject to additional punishment.

(c) Fine

An offender may be sentenced to pay a fine to the State as punishment for his offence. The amount of the fine shall not exceed the amount authorized by this Act.

(d) Community service

The court may sentence an offender to perform a service or work that is beneficial to the community as punishment for his offence. Although such a sentence should not be degrading to the offender, the act, work, or service should be recognized as a punishment in the eyes of the offender and the community.

(e) Close supervision

Close supervision is the close monitoring of the offender's conduct. The court has the discretion to order the offender not to associate with certain persons, not to frequent certain places, not to leave his home or other authorized place except at specified times (such as his place of work and residence), to submit to periodic tests for the use of drugs or alcohol, to submit to searches of his person and property without a warrant or further authorization, to participate in a specified educational or other program or to remain in a specified type of employment, and to take other measures necessary to protect the public from the offender, to facilitate the offender's reintegration into the community, and to provide just punishment for his offence. Close supervision may include the offender's participation in a special treatment program. A treatment program is a program in a treatment center to correct the offender's addictions or to reform the traits that contribute to his criminality. An offender who participates in such a program is legally required to comply with the requirements of the program.

(f) Probation

Probation is a period during which the offender is released subject to conditions, including regular meetings with a probation officer, periodic tests for the use of drugs or alcohol, regular attendance at counseling, and other conditions that are minimally restrictive of his liberty, for the purpose of protecting the public from the offender, facilitating the offender's reintegration into the community, and providing just punishment for his offence.

**1006. Multiple sentences**

(a) In cases where an offender is convicted of more than one offence, he shall be sentenced for each offence separately, after considering the grade of the offence and all other relevant factors.

(b) When sentencing under subsection (a) of this section, the term of the sentence shall be:

(1) For the most serious offence, or the offence with the longest term of imprisonment, the maximum term of imprisonment authorized for that offence.

(2) For the second most serious offence, or the offence with the second longest term of imprisonment, one-half of the term of imprisonment to be imposed.

(3) For the third most serious offence, or the offence with the third longest term of imprisonment, one-fourth of the term of imprisonment to be imposed.

(4) For the fourth most serious offence, or the offence with the fourth longest term of imprisonment, one-eighth of the term of imprisonment to be imposed.

(5) Sentences are to be imposed for all offences in accordance with the above principles. The total sentence imposed on the offender will increase with each additional offence. However, the sentence imposed for each additional offence will decrease in accordance with the principles stated in subsections (b)(1) to (b)(4) of this section.

(c) In cases where a sentence of imprisonment is imposed for more than one offence, each sentence shall be served consecutively.

(d) In cases where an offender is convicted of two or more offences, and the offences are of the same gravity, or the terms of imprisonment to be imposed are of the same length, the court shall determine that one offence is more serious than the other, and shall sentence in accordance with the principles in this section.

**1007. Sentencing powers of the court**

(a) In addition to imposing sentences of imprisonment and non-imprisonment, the court has the discretion to order the offender to do or refrain from doing a certain act. An order made in this manner may remain in force for a period longer than the term of other sentences.

(b) An order made by the court under subsection (a) of this section is considered a sentence. In cases where such an order is made, the court shall reduce the other sentences imposed on the offender, taking into account the severity of the order.

**1008. Kaffara (expiation)**

(a) For offences defined in this Act for which a kaffara is prescribed in Islamic Shari'ah, the kaffara shall be imposed.

### CHAPTER 1100: AGGRAVATING AND MITIGATING FACTORS

**1100. Compliance with the presumptive sentence**

(a) In addition to the changes to be made to the presumptive sentence based on the factors to be considered in sentencing as stated in the sections defining offences in this Act, the presumptive sentence shall also be changed in accordance with the sections stated in this chapter.

(b) If a general factor to be considered in sentencing is a factor that has been considered in the section defining the offence, or in the section defining the grade of the offence, or in the factors to be considered in sentencing, the general principle to be considered in sentencing shall be considered only for the factors that have not been considered among the above-mentioned factors.

**1101. Aggravation for exceeding the required culpability**

(a) If the culpability elements of the offence for which the offender was convicted are proven to a higher degree than required for the conviction, in accordance with section 24 (Culpability elements) of this Act, the presumptive sentence shall be increased by one grade for each additional element.

**1102. Aggravation for causing serious harm**

(a) If the offender's offence:

(1) is a matter of public interest as follows:

(i) substantially disrupting or impairing the function of a public service, a public institution, or a public utility; or

(ii) causing a substantial loss of public confidence in a public service, a public institution, or a public utility; or

(iii) damaging government property, or depriving the government of government property, or injuring a government agent; or

(2) the offender committed the offence against a person who is particularly vulnerable due to one of the following reasons:

(i) a minor, or a person who is 65 years of age or older, or has a physical or mental disability, or the offender is a person who has a legal duty to act in the interest of the victim; or

(ii) one or more of the above circumstances exist; or

(3) caused damage to a place, object, or property of cultural, environmental, religious, or historical significance; or

(4) caused harm that is substantially greater than the harm required for the commission of the offence as defined in the sections defining the offence.

(b) If one of the factors mentioned above is fulfilled, the sentence to be imposed for the offence described in subsection (a) of this section shall be increased by 1 grade, and if 2 factors are fulfilled, by 2 grades from the presumptive sentence. The only circumstance in which the sentence for the offence can be increased by 3 grades from the presumptive sentence is if the harm caused by the offence is substantially greater than the harm required for the commission of the offence as defined in the section defining the offence.

(c) A place, object, or property is considered to be of cultural, environmental, religious, or historical significance in the following circumstances:

(i) it is a place, object, or property of special significance that would be known to a reasonable person, or the fact is actually known to him; or

(ii) the government or an international organization has recognized the place, object, or property as having such special significance.

**1103. Aggravation for cruelty**

(a) If the offender committed the offence with cruelty or with a flagrant disregard for the dignity and humanity of the victim, the presumptive sentence shall be increased by one grade.

**1104. Aggravation or mitigation based on criminal record**

(a) At the time the offender committed the offence;

(1) if he had been convicted of a felony within 6 years prior to the date of the offence, and had been convicted of a misdemeanour within 2 years, the sentence to be imposed for that offence shall be 1 grade higher than the presumptive sentence; or

(2) if he had been convicted of more than one felony within 6 years prior to the date of the offence, or had been convicted of a violent felony within 10 years, the sentence to be imposed for that offence shall be 2 grades higher than the presumptive sentence; or

(3) if he had been convicted of 5 violent felonies within the past 3 years, the sentence to be imposed for that offence shall be 3 grades higher than the presumptive sentence.

(b) If the offence for which the offender was convicted is the second time he has been convicted of an offence of the same type within the past 5 years, the sentence to be imposed for that offence shall be 2 grades higher than the presumptive sentence.

(c) For the purpose of this section, in calculating the time between two offences, the period during which the offender was in custody for the commission of another offence shall not be included by the court.

(d) If the offender committed the offence:

(1) without substantial preparation, and in a very short period of time; and

(2) in circumstances that indicate that it was an abnormal act inconsistent with his general character; and

(3) was a law-abiding person before the commission of the offence, the court has the discretion to reduce the sentence for the offences of which he is charged by 1 or 2 grades from the presumptive sentence. The court shall reduce the sentence in this manner only if it finds it to be just.

(e) In considering the offender's criminal record, his felony convictions before the age of 18 shall be counted. However, his misdemeanour convictions before the age of 18 shall not be counted by the court.

(f) For the purpose of this section, whether an offence committed before the commencement of this Act is a felony or a misdemeanour shall be determined in accordance with section 91 (Unclassified offences) of this Act.

**1105. Aggravation for failure to make restitution**

(a) The offender shall make restitution for all harm caused by his criminal act to a person or a legal entity. If the offender refuses to make restitution for the harm caused by his criminal act, or refuses to enter into a legally binding agreement to make restitution within a reasonable time, the court has the discretion to increase the sentence imposed on him by 1 or 2 grades from the presumptive sentence, as it deems just.

(b) Restitution under this section is the compensation by the offender, to the extent of his financial and other resources, for the harm caused by his criminal act, and for the benefits and advantages of which the victim has been deprived. Even if the offender is not able to make full restitution at once, he shall make restitution to the extent of his ability in the future.

(c) The victim may participate in determining the amount of restitution for the harm caused by the criminal act. However, the victim does not have the right to claim restitution in excess of the harm suffered. If the victim is a competent person, and the restitution offered by the offender for the harm suffered is accepted by the victim, the court shall consider it a valid restitution. In cases where the offender and the victim disagree on the amount of restitution, the court shall decide on the matter.

(d) Restitution is not a punishment. Money paid as restitution is not a fine under section 24 (Authorized fines) of this Act, nor is it an alternative punishment under sections 1005 and 1205 of this Act.

**1106. Mitigation for remorse**

(a) If, before being charged, the offender publicly expresses genuine remorse for his offence, the sentence to be imposed on him shall be 2 grades lower than the presumptive sentence. The sentence may be reduced under this section only in circumstances where he pleads guilty to the offence before being charged.

(b) Even if the offender has been charged, if he pleads guilty to the offence before the trial begins, the sentence to be imposed on him shall be 1 grade lower than the presumptive sentence.

**1107. Mitigation for cooperation**

(a) If, after committing an offence, the offender provides substantial assistance to the law enforcement authorities in the apprehension and prosecution of his accomplices, the State may move the court to impose a sentence that is 1, 2, or 3 grades lower than the presumptive sentence.

(b) If the State moves to reduce the sentence under subsection (a) of this section, the court shall act in accordance with the motion. If the State does not request a reduction in the sentence, the court shall not reduce the sentence on the ground that substantial assistance has been provided to the law enforcement authorities.

**1108. Mitigation for imperfect justification**

(a) If the offender committed the offence in the belief that he had a justification under Chapter 40 (Justification) of this Act, the sentence to be imposed on him shall be lower than the presumptive sentence, as follows:

(1) one grade; or

(2) if, considering the offender's conduct, the nature of the offence, and the circumstances in which it was committed, a justification was almost established, 2 grades.

**1109. Mitigation for imperfect excuse**

(a) If, at the time the offender committed the offence, a substantial number of the conditions required for an excused defence under Chapter 50 (Excuse) of this Act were met, the sentence to be imposed on him shall be lower than the presumptive sentence, as follows:

(1) one grade; or

(2) if, considering the offender's conduct, the nature of the offence, and the circumstances in which it was committed, an excused defence was almost established, 2 grades.

**1110. Mitigation for extreme mental or emotional disturbance**

(a) If the offender committed the offence in the following circumstances, the sentence to be imposed on him shall be lower than the presumptive sentence by the amount stated in subsection (b) of this section:

(1) he was under the influence of extreme mental or emotional disturbance;

(2) there was a reasonable explanation or excuse for the act, the reasonableness of which is to be determined from the viewpoint of a person in the actor's situation under the circumstances as he believed them to be.

(b) (1) one grade; or

(2) if the offender was under such mental or emotional disturbance as to be unable to know what he was doing or to control his actions, 2 grades.

### CHAPTER 1200: LIMITS ON THE APPLICATION OF SENTENCING PRINCIPLES

**1200. Aggravation and mitigation of sentence**

(a) No matter how many aggravating factors there are, the court does not have the discretion to impose a sentence greater than the maximum sentence provided in section 92 and section 93 of this Act.

(b) No matter how many mitigating factors there are, the court does not have the discretion to impose no sentence for an offence, or to impose a meaningless sentence.

**1201. Imprisonment as a sentence**

(a) In the following circumstances, the presumptive sentence is imprisonment. However, imprisonment need not be the only sentence imposed in these circumstances.

(1) The need to confine the offender for the protection of the public;

(2) The need to confine the offender to demonstrate that his conduct was a serious offence condemned by the community; or

(3) There is no other appropriate sentence, considering the offender's circumstances and the nature of his offence.

(b) If the offence committed by the offender is a felony of the 1st or 2nd degree, or a felony defined in Chapter 110 of this Act, at least one-fourth of the sentence to be imposed for that offence under the sentencing guidelines table shall be a sentence of imprisonment.

**1202. Non-imprisonment sentences**

(a) In imposing a sentence other than imprisonment for an offence, and in determining the duration of such a sentence, the court shall consider the circumstances of the offence, the personal characteristics of the offender, the needs of the community, and other relevant factors in sentencing.

(b) A sentence of house arrest is deemed appropriate in the following circumstances:

(1) the offender is not a danger to the community; and

(2) (i) he can provide necessary support to his family while at home; or

(ii) he has special needs that can be met at home.

(3) A sentence of house arrest alone may be appropriate for minor offences. In some circumstances, house arrest may be included as part of a sentence. And to facilitate the offender's reintegration into the community, a sentence of house arrest may be imposed after a sentence of imprisonment.

(c) A sentence of community service is deemed appropriate in the following circumstances:

(1) the offender has a special skill that can benefit the community; or

(2) the offender has the ability to provide a special service that is needed by the community; or

(3) the community service to be performed by the offender as punishment is a service that helps to remedy the harm caused by his criminal act or to prevent such harm.

(4) A sentence of community service is generally appropriate to be included as part of a sentence for many offences. However, a sentence of community service alone should not generally be imposed except for the most minor offences.

(d) (1) A sentence of a fine shall be imposed only on persons who have the means to pay the fine.

(2) A sentence of a fine should generally be an additional sentence imposed along with other types of sentences. A sentence of a fine should not be, or be perceived as, a way for wealthy offenders to escape the real punishment for their offence by paying a monetary price for the sentences that would otherwise be imposed on them.

(e) (1) A sentence of close supervision shall be imposed on an offender only if he is a responsible person who will fully comply with the various rules and regulations he must follow during the period of his close supervision.

(2) The period of close supervision shall be a reasonable period in relation to the offence. Especially to assess the positive effect of a treatment program on the offender after the program.

(f) (1) An order to undergo a treatment program without the offender's consent is deemed appropriate only if it appears that undergoing the treatment will deter the offender from committing further offences.

(2) An order to participate in a treatment program shall be for a period that is appropriate for achieving the purpose of the program. The court shall consult with experts on the duration of the treatment program. An offender should generally be required to participate in a treatment program during or after a sentence of imprisonment. Not before a sentence of imprisonment. Especially to test the positive effect of a treatment program on the offender after the program, and following the treatment program, a sentence of house arrest and close supervision may be imposed.

(g) (1) A sentence of probation is a sentence that is appropriate to be imposed following a sentence of close supervision. And as a condition of probation, the offender may be required to provide a reasonable amount of cooperation in the programs conducted to reform his conduct during the period of his close supervision. In circumstances where it is sufficient to impose a minor restriction on the offender's liberty to deter him from further criminal conduct, probation is an appropriate sentence.

(2) Generally, a sentence of probation imposed by the court should not be the presumptive sentence for the offence he committed.

**1203. Failure to comply with the conditions of non-imprisonment sentences**

(a) If an offender fails to comply with the conditions of a non-imprisonment sentence, the court may immediately order the execution of the sentence of imprisonment that would have been imposed on him if the non-imprisonment sentence had not been imposed.

(b) To prove that an offender has not complied with the conditions of a non-imprisonment sentence, if the State presents clear evidence to the court, it is the responsibility of the offender to prove that he has complied with the conditions. If the offender fails to prove that he has complied with the conditions of the non-imprisonment sentence, the court has the discretion to re-sentence him in accordance with subsection (a) of this section.

**1204. Death penalty**

(a) In order to impose a sentence of death on a person, the State must prove all the elements of the offence. And the State must prove to a practical certainty that the offence he committed was more serious than any other offence, and that he had the intent to commit the offence.

(b) A confession to an offence for which the death penalty may be imposed is not admissible as the sole evidence to prove the offence for the purpose of imposing the death penalty unless the confession is made in open court and with the assistance of counsel, and the person voluntarily confesses to all the elements of the offence.

(c) (1) Every witness presented to prove an offence to the standard required by subsection (a) of this section must be of sound mind and just.

(2) If any statement of any witness presented to prove an offence, including the statement of the defendant, or any part of that statement, contradicts in any way the statement of another witness presented to prove the offence, the offence shall not be deemed to have been proven to the standard required by subsection (a) of this section.

(d) If a court sentences an offender to death, all legal points of the sentence and the facts of the case shall be reviewed by the higher courts of the Maldives.

**1205. Hadd offences**

(a) If a person is convicted of an offence for which a hadd is prescribed in the Qur'an, the punishment prescribed in this Act and in the Qur'an shall be imposed on him in accordance with the principles of Islamic Shari'ah.
