Partnership Act
Chapter One

Introduction

1. Introduction and Name

(a) This is the law governing the formation, registration, operation, and related principles of partnerships in the Maldives.

(b) This law shall be cited as the "Partnership Act".

2. Partnership

(a) A partnership is a business entity formed by two or more persons under a specific name for the purpose of carrying on a business or undertaking work on commercial principles to generate income.

(b) Upon its formation, a partnership is a separate legal personality with the power to sue and be sued in its own name, the capacity to transact in its own name, and the right to acquire and own property in its own name.

(c) Under this Act, partnerships are divided into the following two types:
(1) General Partnership; and
(2) Limited Liability Partnership.

3. General Partnership

(a) A general partnership is a partnership in which every partner is jointly and severally liable for the debts of the partnership, and the extent of such liability is not limited. In the conduct of the partnership's affairs, each partner shall be deemed an agent of the other partners.

(b) Only a natural person can be a partner in a general partnership.

4. Limited Liability Partnership

(a) A limited liability partnership, contrary to a general partnership as described in Section 3 of this Act, is a legal entity separate from its partners. The extent of the partners' liability for the partnership's debts is limited. This liability shall be to the extent of any unpaid amount of the value of the shares they have purchased in the partnership.

(b) A partner in a limited liability partnership can be a natural person or a legal person.

5. Application of Special Principles

Unless specific principles relating to general partnerships or specific principles relating to limited liability partnerships are stated in this Act, the principles stated in this Act concerning partnerships shall apply to both general partnerships and limited liability partnerships.
Chapter Two

Formation and Operation of a Partnership

6. Number of Partners

The maximum number of partners in a partnership shall be stated in the partnership agreement.

7. Property and Funds of the Partnership

(a) All property, funds, and all rights and interests connected therewith acquired in the name of a partnership or for the purpose of the business carried on by a partnership shall be the property of that partnership.

(b) The property and funds of a partnership shall be used solely for the purposes of that partnership, in accordance with the partnership agreement.

8. Maintenance of Partnership Documents

(a) Every partnership shall securely maintain its documents in the manner prescribed in the regulations made under this Act.

(b) The opportunity for partners of a partnership to inspect the documents required to be maintained under subsection (a) of this section shall be available at the partnership's office in the manner prescribed in the regulations made under this Act, whenever they wish to do so.

9. Decision-Making in a Partnership

Unless otherwise stated in this Act or the partnership agreement, every decision that needs to be made by the partnership shall be made by a majority of the partners of that partnership.

10. Managing Partner

(a) Every partnership shall have a managing partner. A natural person or a legal person may be appointed as the managing partner of a limited liability partnership.

(b) The managing partner shall manage the partnership and oversee all its affairs in accordance with this Act, the regulations made under this Act, and the partnership agreement.

(c) The managing partner shall generally be a person residing in the Maldives.

11. Responsibilities of the Managing Partner

The responsibilities of the managing partner are set out below.
(a) To notify the Registrar of any change in any information of the partnership within 7 (seven) days;
(b) To pay fees and other monies payable in connection with the partnership as required;
(c) To conduct necessary transactions with the Registrar in relation to the partnership;
(d) To perform every act stated to be the responsibility of the managing partner of the partnership in the regulations made under this Act and in the partnership agreement; and
(e) In the case of a limited liability partnership, to be liable for debts and to fulfill all legal requirements.
Chapter Three

Registration

12. Application for Registration

(a) The persons forming a partnership shall apply to the Registrar for registration of the partnership in accordance with this Act, through the form prescribed by the Ministry.

(b) When applying for the registration of a partnership under subsection (a) of this section, a partnership agreement shall be submitted to the Registrar.

13. Granting Registration

(a) If any person applies to the Registrar for the registration of a partnership under Section 12 of this Act, after reviewing the matters to be considered by the Registrar in relation to such application, if the application fulfills the conditions stated in this Act, the Registrar shall register the partnership and include it in the register mentioned in Section 45 of this Act.

(b) A partnership shall be registered upon payment of the registration fee specified in the Schedule to this Act.

14. Certificate of Registration

If a partnership is registered in accordance with Section 13 of this Act, the Registrar shall issue a certificate of registration to the managing partner of that partnership.

15. Coming into Existence of a Partnership

The date of coming into existence of a partnership shall be the date stated in the document as the date on which the Registrar issues the certificate of registration of that partnership under Section 14 of this Act.

16. Partnership Agreement

(a) Every partnership shall have a written agreement between the persons forming the partnership.

(b) Unless otherwise stated in this Act, all affairs of the partnership shall be conducted in accordance with the partnership agreement.

(c) The partnership agreement shall include the following information:
(1) The name of the partnership;
(2) The address at which the partnership is to be registered;
(3) The type of partnership;
(4) If the partnership is formed for a fixed term, the duration of the partnership;
(5) The objects for which the partnership is formed;
(6) The following information regarding the partners of the partnership:
(i) If a partner is a natural person, the partner's name, address, national identity, and Maldivian national identity card number or, if a foreigner, the passport number;
(ii) If a partner is a legal person, the registered name, address, country, registration number, and address for sending documents;
(7) The name of the managing partner of the partnership;
(8) The capital of the partnership and the amount of each partner's share in that partnership;
(9) The manner in which profits will be distributed and liability for debts will be borne among the partners;
(10) The manner in which one may join the partnership, withdraw from the partnership, and partners may be removed; and
(11) Other information required to be in the partnership agreement as determined in the regulations made under this Act.

17. Not to Conduct Business Before Registration

(a) A partnership that has applied for registration under Section 12 of this Act shall not conduct any business, perform any work, or provide any service in the name of that partnership until after receiving the certificate of registration of the partnership.

(b) If any person acts in contravention of the principle stated in subsection (a) of this section, the person who committed the act shall be responsible for it.
Chapter Four

Name of the Partnership

18. Name of the Partnership

(a) A name may be registered as the name of a partnership from one of the following types of names:
(1) A name that includes the names of all the partners of that partnership;
(2) A name that is read with the name of a partner or some partners of that partnership;
(3) A name consisting of a single name formed by combining the names of the partners of that partnership; or
(4) A name that indicates the work carried on by that partnership.

(b) As part of the name of a limited liability partnership, the words "Limited Liability Partnership" or its abbreviation "L.L.P" or "LLP" shall be written at the end of the name.

19. Use of the Partnership Name

(a) A partnership registered under this Act shall not carry on business, perform work, or provide services in any name other than the name under which the partnership is registered.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, this Act does not prevent the registration of a separate business name for the purpose of carrying on a specific activity included in the work of the partnership.

20. Names that Cannot be Registered

(a) If the name proposed as the partnership name by a person applying for the registration of a partnership under this Act is a name as described below, the Registrar has the discretion not to register that name. Or, if the name of a partnership registered under this Act is requested to be changed to a name as described below, the Registrar has the discretion not to change the name of that partnership.
(1) The name is the same as or similar to another registered partnership;
(2) The name is a registered trademark;
(3) The name is contrary to the moral standards of the community;
(4) The name has been determined in a judgment of a court of law not to be used as a business name;
(5) The name is a name reserved in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

(b) For the purpose of paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of this section, a particular name shall be considered a name similar to another registered partnership if the name is so closely related to the name of the second partnership that if another person uses it, it could be considered part of that partnership.

21. Order to Change Name

(a) If the name of a partnership registered under this Act, or the name proposed for registration of a partnership under this Act, is a name as described in paragraphs (1) to (4) of subsection (a) of Section 20 of this Act, the Registrar has the discretion to order the managing partner of that partnership to change the name.

(b) If the Registrar orders the managing partner of a partnership to change its name under subsection (a) of this section, the name must be changed within 1 (one) month from the date of such order.

(c) If the Registrar orders the managing partner of a partnership to change its name under subsection (a) of this section, and if that person does not act in accordance with the Registrar's order within the period given for changing the name under subsection (b) of this section, the Registrar has the discretion to cancel the registration of that partnership.

(d) Any person may apply to the Registrar to order the change of a name used by a partnership run by a particular person, stating that the name is a name as described in paragraphs (1) to (4) of subsection (a) of Section 20 of this Act.

(e) Notwithstanding subsection (d) of this section, another person may request an order to change the name of a particular partnership only if 12 (twelve) months have not passed since the registration of that partnership and the use of its name.

22. Making Regulations Regarding Names

The regulations made under this Act shall determine the names that are not permitted to be used in a partnership registered under this Act, the circumstances in which a name change may be ordered, and the principles for reserving a name.

23. Sharing of Profit and Loss

(a) Profit shall be distributed and loss shall be shared among the partners of a general partnership in accordance with the partnership agreement, in proportion to the money or property agreed to be included in the capital of the partnership by that partner or the service rendered by that person to the partnership.

(b) Profit shall be distributed among the partners of a limited liability partnership in accordance with the partnership agreement, in proportion to the amount of shares agreed to be included in the capital of the partnership by that partner or the proportion of debt for which they have agreed to be liable.

(c) The partners of a limited liability partnership shall be liable for debts in the following manner:
(1) To the total amount of shares stated in the partnership agreement, including the amount of shares for which the price has been paid and, if there are shares for which the price has not been paid after the shares have been allotted; or
(2) To a higher amount than the amount mentioned in paragraph (1) of this subsection, as stated in the partnership agreement to bear liability.
Chapter Five

Liability of the Partnership and Partners

24. Scope of Liability

(a) Every partner of a general partnership is an agent of the other partners of that partnership for the purpose of the business of the partnership. And, every transaction entered into by a partner of that partnership in the ordinary course of the business usually carried on by that partnership is a transaction for which the other partners of that partnership must act and be liable.

(b) Every partner of a limited liability partnership is an agent of the entire partnership for the purpose of the business of the partnership. And, every transaction entered into by a partner of that partnership in the ordinary course of the business usually carried on by that partnership is a transaction for which the entire partnership must act and be liable.

25. Acting Outside the Scope of the Objects

(a) A partnership, or a partner of a partnership, shall not, in the name of that partnership, do any act that is not included within the objects of the partnership agreement.

(b) If a partnership or a particular partner acts in contravention of the principle stated in subsection (a) of this section, the partner or partners who committed the act shall be liable for it.

26. Transacting Without Authority and Without the Partner's Identity Being Known

If a person transacts with a partner of a partnership without knowing that he is a partner of that partnership, and if the transaction entered into by that partner is also an act outside the scope of the authority vested in him, the other partners of that partnership or the partnership shall not be liable in connection with that transaction. In that case, the partner shall be liable for the transaction in his personal capacity.

27. Transacting with Knowledge of Partnership and Belief in Authority

In acting outside the scope of the authority vested in a partner of a partnership, if the person transacting knew that he was a partner of that partnership and also believed that the partner had the authority to enter into that transaction, the partner and the other partners of that partnership or the partnership shall be liable in connection with the transaction.

28. Transacting with a Partner Known to be Without Authority

If a transaction entered into by a partner of a partnership with a person transacting with the partnership was a transaction conducted outside the scope of the authority vested in that partner, and if the person transacting with that partner also knew this, the other partners of the partnership or the partnership shall not be liable in connection with that transaction.

29. Transacting with a Partner Not Known to be Without Authority

Even if a transaction entered into by a partner of a partnership with a person transacting with the partnership was a transaction conducted outside the scope of the authority vested in that partner, if the person transacting believed that the partner had the authority to enter into that transaction, the partner and the other partners of that partnership or the partnership shall be liable in connection with the transaction.

30. Period of Liability

(a) Every partner of a general partnership shall be jointly and severally liable with the other partners of that partnership for the transactions entered into by that partnership, and for the debts and obligations incurred during the period he was in that partnership.

(b) A person who newly joins a general partnership shall not be liable for the acts done by that partnership before he joined the partnership.

(c) Even if a partner of a general partnership withdraws from that partnership, he shall not be released from the liability to pay the debts and other responsibilities incurred by that partnership during the period he was in that partnership.

(d) The payment of debts and other responsibilities incurred by a limited liability partnership is the responsibility of the partnership. The partners of that partnership shall not be personally liable for it.

(e) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act, if any partner of a partnership, for any purpose other than a purpose of that partnership, spends the money of that partnership without the permission of the other partners of that partnership, or acts in contravention of any law or the partnership agreement, it is a matter for which that partner shall be personally liable. And the partnership or the other partners of that partnership shall not be liable for it.

(f) If a partner of a limited liability partnership, in the name of that partnership, commits any of the following acts, even if he is a partner of a limited liability partnership, he shall bear the liability of the act he committed in his personal capacity. And the separate legal personality of the limited liability partnership shall be maintained to that extent.
(1) Committing fraud and deceit;
(2) Being dishonest;
(3) Not paying taxes;
(4) Being negligent.

31. Holding Out as a Partner of a Partnership

If any person, by words, conduct, or otherwise, represents himself as a partner of a partnership, or if a partnership uses the name of a person not included in that partnership as a partner of the partnership and the person whose name is used knowingly fails to take action, he shall be liable, as if he were a partner of that partnership, to pay the money payable by that partnership to the persons who transacted with that partnership believing that he was a partner of that partnership.

32. Using the Name of a Deceased Partner

Even if the other partners of a partnership, after the death of a partner of the partnership, carry on the business of that partnership in its former name, including his name, the heirs of the deceased partner shall not be liable for the debts incurred by that partnership as a result of transactions entered into by that partnership after the death of that partner.
Chapter Six

Conversion of a Partnership from One Type to Another

33. Conversion of a General Partnership to a Limited Liability Partnership

(a) A general partnership may be converted to a limited liability partnership by a unanimous decision of the partners of the partnership in accordance with the partnership agreement, and after applying to the Registrar for registration as a limited liability partnership, upon registration of that partnership as a limited liability partnership in accordance with this Act.

(b) When converting a general partnership to a limited liability partnership and applying to the Registrar for registration as a limited liability partnership, the following documents shall be submitted:
(1) The decision of the partners of the partnership to convert the general partnership to a limited liability partnership;
(2) A document signed by each partner of the general partnership stating that they do not object to becoming a partner of the limited liability partnership;
(3) The limited liability partnership agreement;
(4) A document signed by the persons to whom debts incurred without mortgaging any property of the partnership are to be paid, stating that there is no objection to the conversion of the general partnership to a limited liability partnership;
(5) Other information specified in the regulations made under this Act.

(c) Upon application to the Registrar for the conversion of a general partnership to a limited liability partnership and for registration as a limited liability partnership, in accordance with subsections (a) and (b) of this section, a certificate of registration shall be issued for that partnership as a limited liability partnership if the matters required to be fulfilled by the persons forming a limited liability partnership for the formation and registration of a limited liability partnership, as stated in this Act and the regulations made under this Act, have been fulfilled.

34. Conversion of a Limited Liability Partnership to a General Partnership

(a) A limited liability partnership may be converted to a general partnership by a unanimous decision of the partners of the partnership in accordance with the partnership agreement, and after applying to the Registrar for registration as a general partnership, upon registration of that partnership as a general partnership in accordance with this Act.

(b) When converting a limited liability partnership to a general partnership and applying to the Registrar for registration as a general partnership, the following documents shall be submitted:
(1) The decision of the partners of the partnership to convert the limited liability partnership to a general partnership;
(2) A document signed by each partner of the limited liability partnership stating that they do not object to becoming a partner of the general partnership;
(3) The general partnership agreement;
(4) Other information specified in the regulations made under this Act.

(c) Upon application to the Registrar for the conversion of a limited liability partnership to a general partnership and for registration as a general partnership, in accordance with subsections (a) and (b) of this section, a certificate of registration shall be issued for that partnership as a general partnership if the matters required to be fulfilled by the persons forming a general partnership for the formation and registration of a general partnership, as stated in this Act and the regulations made under this Act, have been fulfilled.
Chapter Seven

Joining and Leaving a Partnership

35. General Principle

An additional partner shall be included in a partnership and a partner included in a partnership shall be removed from that partnership in accordance with the partnership agreement and this Act or the regulations made under this Act.

36. Joining a Partnership

A partner of a partnership may include another person in the share of that partner in that partnership. However, a new partner shall be included in the partnership in this manner in accordance with the partnership agreement. If a new person or persons are admitted to a partnership, the name of that person or those persons shall be notified to the Registrar by the partnership within 7 (seven) days of the appointment of that person or those persons as partners of that partnership.

37. Withdrawing from or Being Removed from a Partnership

(a) A partner of a partnership may withdraw from the partnership in the manner specified and stated in the partnership agreement. If the partnership agreement does not specify a particular manner, a partner of a partnership may withdraw from the partnership after giving 30 (thirty) days' notice.

(b) Except as specified and stated in the partnership agreement, no partner of any partnership shall be removed from that partnership, even with a majority of the partners.

(c) Notwithstanding Section 35 of this Act and subsections (a) and (b) of this section, a partner of a partnership shall be considered to have withdrawn after the removal or withdrawal of the partner of the partnership and upon submitting the matter to the Registrar and registering it.
Chapter Eight

Termination of a Partnership

38. Dissolution of a Partnership

A partnership shall be dissolved in the manner specified in the partnership agreement, this Act, and the regulations made under this Act.

39. Circumstances in which a Partnership is Terminated

A partnership shall be terminated if any of the following circumstances arise:
(a) If the partnership is formed for a fixed term, the expiry of the term of that partnership;
(b) If the partnership is formed to carry out a specific work or matter, the completion of that work or matter;
(c) The decision of the partners of that partnership to dissolve the partnership, in the manner stated in the partnership agreement;
(d) The business carried on by the partnership being prohibited by law, or the carrying on of that type of business being prohibited by law to the partners of that partnership;
(e) A court ordering the dissolution of the partnership.

40. Dissolution of a Partnership through Court

If a partner of a partnership applies to the court for the dissolution of that partnership, the court may order the dissolution of that partnership in the following circumstances:
(a) A partner of the partnership being proven to be of unsound mind;
(b) A partner of the partnership being permanently unable to perform the duties to be performed by him under the partnership agreement;
(c) A partner of that partnership committing an offense that may cause loss to the business carried on by the partnership, in view of the business;
(d) A partner of the partnership willfully or repeatedly contravening the partnership agreement, or acting in a manner that makes it difficult for the other partners to carry on the affairs of that partnership with him included in the business of that partnership;
(e) The business of the partnership cannot be carried on without loss;
(f) The court finding that the dissolution of the partnership is the most just and fair way in that matter.
Chapter Nine

General Provisions

41. Termination of the Partnership Relationship

Unless otherwise stated in the partnership agreement, upon the death or bankruptcy of a partner of that partnership, the relationship between that partner and the other partners shall be terminated. However, the partnership relationship shall continue between the remaining partners of that partnership and between the partners who are not bankrupt.

42. Unauthorized Trading

If any partner of any partnership carries on a business of that partnership separately from that partnership without the permission of the other partners of that partnership, all profits derived from that business shall be given to the partnership of which that partner is a member.

43. Sale of a Partner's Share

Unless otherwise stated in the partnership agreement, the share of a partner of that partnership may be sold or transferred to a person who is not a partner of that partnership if all the partners of that partnership agree to it.

44. Acting in Contravention of the Law

If an act that is stated to be done in a particular way in this Act is done in another way, or if an act that is stated not to be done in this Act is done, the Registrar has the discretion to fine the person who committed the act by an amount between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 15,000 (fifteen thousand), depending on the gravity of the act.

45. Register of Partnerships

The Registrar shall maintain a register of partnerships registered under this Act in the manner specified in the regulations made under this Act.

46. Schedule

The Schedule to this Act is a part of this Act. This Act shall be complete with the inclusion of that Schedule.

47. Making Regulations

(a) All regulations to be made under this Act shall be made and administered by the Ministry.

(b) The regulations to be made under this Act shall be made and published by the Ministry within a maximum of 3 (three) months from the date of commencement of this Act.

48. Commencement of the Act

This Act shall come into force on the date of its passing, certification, and publication in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

49. Repealed Law

Upon the commencement of this Act, Law No. 9/96 (Partnership Act of the Maldives) is repealed. And partnerships registered under that Act shall be deemed to be general partnerships registered under this Act.

50. Transitional Provision

Partnerships existing at the time of the commencement of this Act shall change their names in accordance with this Act.

51. Definitions

Unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and phrases in this Act have the meanings given below:

    "Ministry" means the ministry designated to implement the economic policies of the government.

    "Person" or "party" means natural persons and legal persons.

    "Registrar" means the Registrar of Companies mentioned in the Companies Act.

    "Partner" means a member of a partnership.
