Prevention of Human Trafficking Act

Part One
Introduction

Chapter One
Introduction and Purpose

1. Introduction and Name

(a) This is an Act to establish the offences and penalties related to trafficking to prevent human trafficking in or through the Maldives, to establish a system to provide protection for victims of trafficking, and to determine other related principles.

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Prevention of Human Trafficking Act".

2. Purpose

The purpose of this Act is to achieve the following main objectives:

(a) To establish human trafficking as a criminal offence;

(b) To work towards the prevention of acts of human trafficking conducted in or through the Maldives;

(c) To impose appropriate punishment on persons who commit offences under this Act;

(d) To establish robust procedures for the proper investigation of cases against persons who commit offences under this Act and for their prosecution;

(e) To provide protection and assistance to those who are and may become victims of trafficking, and to promote and protect the human rights of such persons;

(f) To work in collaboration with associations and organizations active in the Maldives, and with international associations and organizations, to prevent human trafficking in or through the Maldives.

3. Non-derogation of rights and adherence to international principles

Unless expressly stated otherwise in this Act, this Act shall be interpreted in a manner that does not limit the fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed to every person by the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives. Furthermore, when interpreting the principles stated in this Act, the courts of law shall have regard for and uphold the principles accepted by open, democratic societies founded on human dignity, equality, and freedom, and shall have regard for the relevant principles in international treaties to which the Maldives is a party.

4. Index

(a) The main concepts upon which this Act is based are stated in Chapter Two of this Act.

(b) The meanings of the main words and phrases contained in this Act are stated in Article 71 of this Act.

Chapter Two
Index of Concepts

5. Basis of Concepts

The concepts stated in this Act are set out in this Chapter to maintain the principles contained herein and to facilitate the achievement of the objectives of this Act in their broadest sense. Every article of this Act shall be interpreted in a manner that does not limit these concepts.

6. Trafficking or an act of trafficking

"Trafficking" or "an act of trafficking" refers to committing an act from among the acts specified in Article 12 of this Act as an act of human trafficking, or an act from among the acts specified in Article 14 of this Act as an act of trafficking of children.

7. Trafficker

"Trafficker" refers to a person who commits an act of human trafficking.

8. Trafficked person

"Trafficked person" refers to a person who is the victim of an act of trafficking.

9. Person considered to be a trafficked person

"Person considered to be a trafficked person" refers to any person who, based on reasonable evidence, is believed by one of the parties specified in this Act to be a person against whom an act of trafficking is occurring or has occurred.

10. Act of exploitation

"Act of exploitation" refers to committing, against a person, an act from among the acts specified in Article 13 of this Act. This includes committing such an act against a child.

11. Imposing unlawful coercion

"Imposing unlawful coercion" refers to:

(a) threatening a person; or

(b) using force against a person; or

(c) exerting physical or psychological power over a person; or

(d) subjecting a person to coercion; or

(e) deceiving a person; or

(f) abducting a person from their environment; or

(g) abusing a position of power and influence; or

(h) improperly taking advantage of a person's vulnerability due to being a foreign worker or for any other reason; or

(i) abusing a legal system; or

(j) defrauding a person; or

(k) giving money or providing a benefit to another person who can exert influence over a person.

Part Two
Relating to Offences

Chapter Three
Legal Recognition

12. Human Trafficking

(a) The commission of any of the following acts shall be considered human trafficking:

(1) Committing any of the following acts against a person by means of the use of force or the threat of the use of force, or by deception, fraud, abuse of a position of trust, or by taking advantage of a person's vulnerability or disability, or by giving money or another benefit, or by imposing unlawful coercion;
i. Bringing or transferring a person from a foreign country to the Maldives, or sending or transferring a person from the Maldives to a foreign country; or
ii. Transporting or transferring a person from one place to another within the Maldives; or
iii. Receiving or keeping a person under one's custody; or
iv. Recruiting for a job or work; and

(2) The act was done with the purpose of committing an act of exploitation against that person.

(b) Even if the person against whom the act described in sub-article (a) is committed has given consent to the acts listed from (i) to (iv) of sub-article (a)(1), if that consent was obtained by committing the acts specified in sub-article (a)(1), the person committing the act shall be deemed to have committed the act of trafficking specified in this Article.

(c) For the purpose of sub-article (a)(2), committing an act of exploitation refers to committing an act of exploitation against a person as specified in Article 13 of this Act.

13. Committing an act of exploitation

(a) Committing the following acts shall be considered committing an act of exploitation against a person:

(1) Forcing a person to perform a task or provide a service; and that person is made to perform the task or provide the service subject to a certain condition; and due to unlawful coercion imposed on the person, they do not have the freedom to change that situation or condition; or

(2) Forcing a person to enter into an agreement that creates a legal obligation; and the person is forced to enter into such an agreement subject to a certain condition, and due to unlawful coercion imposed on the person, they do not have the freedom to change that agreement or condition; or

(3) Forcing a person to marry a specific person, and they are forced to marry subject to a certain condition, and due to unlawful coercion imposed on the person, they do not have the freedom to change that condition or their marital status; or

(4) Causing a person to agree to perform a certain task or provide a service on behalf of themself or a person under their control, and the agreement is made in exchange for a debt that arises or is alleged to arise after the agreement is made, and it is clear that the debt is a disproportionately large amount, or a reasonable value for the work or service is not established in the repayment of the debt, or the work or service is of an undefined nature or has no specified duration or extent; or

(5) Forcing a person to engage in sexual acts or participate in a sexual act, or forcing them into prostitution; or

(6) Removing or forcing the removal of a bodily organ of that person; or

(7) Committing any other such act of exploitation.

(b) In a situation where an act of exploitation is committed against a child, in addition to the matters specified in sub-article (a)(1), committing any of the following acts against a child shall be considered an act of exploitation:

(1) Forcing a child to perform work that may pose a risk to the child's health or safety, or obtaining such a service from the child; or

(2) Making a child perform work that is prohibited by law for a child of that age, or obtaining such a service from the child.

14. Trafficking of Children

(a) Committing the following acts shall be considered the trafficking of a child:

(1) Committing any of the following acts against a child:
i. Bringing or transferring a child from a foreign country to the Maldives, or sending or transferring a child from the Maldives to a foreign country; or
ii. Transporting or transferring a child from one place to another within the Maldives; or
iii. Receiving a child or keeping such a child under one's custody; or
iv. Recruiting for a job or work; and

(2) The act was done with the purpose of committing an act of exploitation against that child.

(b) In proving that a person has committed an act specified in sub-article (a) against a child, it is not necessary to consider whether unlawful coercion was imposed on the child in committing the act. And if it is proven that a person has committed an act from among the acts specified in sub-article (a)(1) against a child for the purpose specified in sub-article (a)(2), that person shall be deemed to have trafficked a child.

(c) For the purpose of sub-article (a)(2), committing an act of exploitation refers to committing an act of exploitation against a child as specified in Article 13 of this Act.

15. Consent

For the purposes of this Act, a child shall not be deemed to have given consent for an act, which is established as an offence in this Act, to be committed against him or her.

16. Debt Bondage

An act committed that fulfils the following conditions shall be considered an act of debt bondage:

(a) Causing a person to agree to perform a certain task or provide a service on behalf of themself or another person under their control, or being negligent as to whether the result of an intentional act against that person leads to them making such an agreement; and

(b) The person makes such an agreement in exchange for a debt they are required to pay or are alleged to be required to pay, or a debt that arises or is alleged to arise after the agreement is made; and

(c) It is explicitly clear that the debt is a disproportionately large amount when compared to the work or service; or

(d) A reasonable value for the work or service is not established in the repayment of the debt; or

(e) The amount to be repaid as debt is not specified; or

(f) The work or service is of an undefined nature or has no specified duration or extent.

Chapter Four
Offence and Punishment

17. The offence of human trafficking

(a) Human trafficking is an offence.

(b) For the purpose of sub-article (a), trafficking refers to committing the act specified in Article 12 of this Act.

(c) The punishment for a person who commits an offence specified in sub-article (a) is imprisonment for a term of 10 (ten) years.

18. The offence of trafficking children

(a) Trafficking of children is an offence.

(b) For the purpose of sub-article (a), trafficking of children refers to committing the act specified in Article 14 of this Act.

(c) The punishment for a person who commits an offence specified in sub-article (a) is imprisonment for a term of 15 (fifteen) years.

19. The offence of attempting or participating in trafficking

(a) Attempting to traffic persons or children, or participating in any form in the trafficking of persons or children, is an offence.

(b) The punishment for a person who commits an offence specified in sub-article (a) is imprisonment for a term of 7 (seven) years.

20. The offence of organizing or ordering trafficking

(a) Organizing to traffic persons or children, or ordering the trafficking of persons or children, is an offence.

(b) The punishment for a person who commits an offence specified in sub-article (a) is imprisonment for a term of 7 (seven) years.

21. Aggravation of punishment based on the circumstances of the offence

(a) If any of the following circumstances exist when an offence specified in Article 17 of this Act is committed, the punishment for the person who committed the offence shall be imprisonment for a term of 15 (fifteen) years:

(1) The offence results in the death of the trafficked person or another person, or causes serious harm to the trafficked person or another person;
(2) The trafficker commits the act with reckless cruelty or with a clear disregard for the dignity and honour of the trafficked person or another person;
(3) The trafficked person is a person requiring special care;
(4) A weapon is used in the commission of the offence;
(5) The offence facilitates the opportunity for the trafficked person to contract a life-threatening disease;
(6) The trafficked person has a mental or physical disability;
(7) The person trafficked is a child;
(8) More than one person is trafficked;
(9) The offence is committed by a criminal organization;
(10) The act of trafficking is committed by giving the trafficked person a narcotic drug or any other medicine;
(11) A child is involved in the commission of the offence;
(12) The perpetrator is a person who has previously been convicted of such an offence;
(13) The perpetrator is a civil servant or an employee of a law enforcement agency;
(14) The perpetrator is the spouse of the trafficked person;
(15) Committing the act while knowing that another person will commit an act of exploitation against the trafficked person while or after they are taken from one country to another, or from one place to another;
(16) The perpetrator is a person in a position of trust with respect to the trafficked person.

(b) In a case where a person is prosecuted under this Article, even if it is not proven in court that they committed an act from among the acts specified in sub-articles (a)(1) to (a)(16), if they are found guilty of an offence from among the offences specified in Article 17, Article 18, Article 19, or Article 20 of this Act, this Article shall not prevent the imposition of the punishment prescribed for that offence.

22. The offence of providing material assistance for human trafficking

(a) It is an offence for any person to provide material assistance and resources to a person or a group for the purpose of trafficking or in a manner that facilitates trafficking.

(b) The punishment for a person who commits an offence specified in sub-article (a) is imprisonment for a term of 7 (seven) years.

23. The offence of obtaining material benefit from trafficking

(a) It is an offence for any person to obtain any benefit from committing an act of trafficking or in committing such an act, or to have the intention of obtaining such a benefit from the act.

(b) The punishment for a person who commits an offence specified in sub-article (a) is imprisonment for a term of 7 (seven) years.

24. The offence of misrepresenting the conditions of work or service

(a) It is an offence for a person who intentionally arranges, or intentionally facilitates, the transportation, transfer, maintenance, or reception of a person from one country to another; and where arrangements are made for that person to work or provide a service in the country to which they are taken; and who intentionally provides information to the person being taken to that country, or their representative, or a government employee, in order to convey a certain understanding regarding any of the following matters, while knowing that a substantial part of that information is incorrect:

(1) Regarding the type or nature of the work to be performed or the service to be provided by the person being taken to that country; or
(2) Regarding the conditions of the work to be performed or the service to be provided by the person being taken to that country; or
(3) Regarding the price or wage determined for the work to be performed or the service to be provided by the person being taken to that country; or
(4) Regarding the standard and condition of the place where the person is to live while working or providing services in that country; or
(5) Regarding the duration for which the person being taken to that country must work or provide services; or
(6) Regarding the rules the person must follow during their free time; or
(7) Regarding the way in which the work or service can be terminated if they wish to do so; or
(8) Regarding whether any of the matters from (1) to (7) of this sub-article can be changed by the person, or if they can be changed, the extent to which they can be changed.

(b) The punishment for a person who commits an offence specified in sub-article (a) is imprisonment for a term of 7 (seven) years.

25. The offence of debt bondage

(a) A person who commits an act of debt bondage has committed an offence.

(b) The punishment for a person who commits an offence specified in sub-article (a) is imprisonment for a term of 7 (seven) years.

26. Offences by transporters of persons and goods

(a) It is an offence for the owner, master, agent, or the charterer or operator of a vessel, or a person or entity engaged in the commercial transport of goods or persons, or an agent of such a party, to intentionally bring a person into the Maldives, or attempt to bring them in, or facilitate their entry, if they do so while the following circumstances exist:

(1) Knowing that the person being brought into the Maldives is not a Maldivian citizen, and knowing that they do not possess an identity document, travel document, or work permit required for entry, stay, and departure from the Maldives; and
(2) Being negligent as to whether a person has imposed or may impose unlawful coercion on the person being brought into the Maldives, or has committed or may commit an act of exploitation against them; and
(3) Failing to report the presence of such a person on the vessel or in the Maldives to the Maldives Police Service.

(b) Notwithstanding sub-article (a), a person specified in sub-article (a) shall not be deemed guilty if, based on reasonable evidence, they believe that the document held by the person being brought into the Maldives is an official document required for entry, or if the person possessed such a document when departing from the last port of call to come to the Maldives, or if the person's entry into the Maldives was due to circumstances beyond the control of the person or party specified in sub-article (a), or if the person was brought into the Maldives after being rescued at sea.

(c) The punishment for a person who commits an offence specified in sub-article (a) is imprisonment for a term of 7 (seven) years.

27. The offence of using forced labour

(a) It is an offence for any person to use a service performed by, or gain any benefit from, the work done or service provided by a trafficked person as a result of or during the course of an act of trafficking.

(b) The punishment for a person who commits an offence specified in sub-article (a) is imprisonment for a term of 1 (one) year.

(c) If the victim of the act of trafficking mentioned in sub-article (a) is a child, the punishment for the person who commits the offence specified in sub-article (a) is imprisonment for a term of 5 (five) years.

28. The offence of preparing and altering documents

(a) For the purpose of committing an offence specified in Article 12 or Article 14 of this Act, or to facilitate such an offence, it is an offence to unlawfully prepare, produce, alter, or make additions or deletions to a document containing a person's identity information, or a travel document, or a permit issued by a relevant government authority for employment, or a document indicating that a person has been or will be given a job.

(b) The punishment for a person who commits an offence specified in sub-article (a) is imprisonment for a term of 5 (five) years.

29. Additional offence related to documents

(a) For the purpose of committing an offence specified in Article 12 or Article 14 of this Act, or to facilitate such an offence, it is an offence to procure, buy, destroy, conceal, remove, withhold, alter, copy, or possess a person's identity document, or travel document, or a permit issued by a relevant government authority for employment, or a document indicating that a person has been or will be given a job, for the purpose of improper use. Any agreement made to commit such an act or to facilitate such an act is also a void agreement.

(b) The punishment for a person who commits an offence specified in sub-article (a) is imprisonment for a term of 5 (five) years.

30. The offence of disclosing information of trafficked persons or witnesses

(a) It is an offence if a person, who by virtue of their job or position knows the information of a trafficked person or a witness in a trafficking offence, discloses that information in a manner other than that permitted by law.

(b) The punishment for a person who commits an offence specified in sub-article (a) is imprisonment for a term of 5 (five) years.

(c) If the offence specified in sub-article (a) is committed by a public official, the punishment for the person who committed the offence is imprisonment for a term of 7 (seven) years.

Part Three
Protection afforded to trafficked persons

Chapter Five
Taking initial steps regarding trafficked persons

31. Persons considered to be trafficked persons

If, based on reasonable evidence, any of the following parties believe that an act of trafficking is occurring or has occurred against a particular person, that person against whom the act is committed shall be a person considered to be a trafficked person.

(a) An officer of the Department of Immigration and Emigration;
(b) An officer of the Maldives Police Service;
(c) An officer of the Maldives Customs Service;
(d) An employee of any other law enforcement agency;
(e) A relevant official of the Ministry of Health;
(f) A relevant official of the Human Resources Ministry;
(g) A relevant officer of the ministry for human rights or the ministry for children's rights;
(h) A medical practitioner or a healthcare worker;
(i) A social worker or a psychologist;
(j) An employee of a non-governmental organization working to provide assistance to victims of crime;
(k) Any other party specified in the regulations made under this Act.

32. Submitting information of persons considered to be trafficked persons

(a) Upon believing that a particular person is a person considered to be a trafficked person, the party specified in Article 31 of this Act shall, within 7 (seven) days, submit the case of that person to the Maldives Police Service and provide written notice of the matter to the Controller.

(b) After notifying the Maldives Police Service and the Controller as per sub-article (a), that party shall inform the person considered to be a trafficked person of the matter in writing, and inform them that they will be given an opportunity to reflect on how they decide to proceed, and that they have the right to remain in the Maldives during that period.

(c) If a person considered to be a trafficked person is notified under sub-article (b), they shall be given a period of at least 90 (ninety) days to reflect on how they decide to proceed. And within that period:

(1) The person shall decide whether to cooperate with the investigating authority in an investigation conducted in relation to a trafficking offence; and
(2) The Maldives Police Service shall complete the procedures required under Article 41 of this Act regarding the identification of trafficked persons.

(d) During the period given to the person considered to be a trafficked person under sub-article (c) to reflect on how they decide to proceed, they shall have the following rights:

(1) The right to remain in the Maldives during that period; and
(2) The right to be afforded the rights specified in Chapter Six of this Act; and
(3) If a decision has been made to deport them, the enforcement of that decision shall be suspended; or if an order has been issued for their deportation, the enforcement of that order shall be suspended.

(e) During the period specified in sub-article (c), the investigation related to the act of trafficking may proceed.

Chapter Six
Providing assistance to persons considered to be trafficked persons

33. Circumstances for providing assistance

(a) Assistance under this Chapter shall be provided to persons considered to be trafficked persons if they agree to receive such assistance.

(b) Assistance under this Chapter shall be provided to a person considered to be a trafficked person:

(1) Without regard to their legal status of entry into the Maldives; or
(2) Without regard to the extent to which they wish to participate in an investigation or prosecution related to the act of trafficking, or their ability to do so.

(c) A person shall not be detained because they are a person considered to be a trafficked person. Nor shall they be detained in connection with their legal status of entry into the Maldives.

(d) Regulations made under this Act shall specify the procedures to be followed in handling cases related to persons considered to be trafficked persons.

34. Provision of information

(a) The Maldives Police Service shall clarify the following information to a person considered to be a trafficked person:

(1) Information regarding the protection available to a person considered to be a trafficked person under this Act;
(2) Information on the assistance available from civil society organizations that provide assistance to trafficked persons;
(3) That they have the right to contact the embassy or other official body of the country to which the person considered to be a trafficked person belongs;
(4) If an investigation concerning them is ongoing or if charges have been brought against them, information related to that matter.

(b) When providing information to a person considered to be a trafficked person, the Maldives Police Service shall, to the extent possible, work to explain these matters in a language they understand. And if the person is illiterate, the information shall be explained to them orally.

35. Provision of services

The Ministry shall make arrangements to provide the following services to persons considered to be trafficked persons:

(a) Providing them with suitable accommodation to live in during the period they remain in the Maldives under Article 32 of this Act;

(b) Making arrangements for them to receive the medical treatment specified in the regulations made under this Act;

(c) Providing them with counselling services in a manner that ensures their information is not disclosed;

(d) Providing them with information on how to obtain the assistance of a legal counsel regarding the following matters:
(1) In assisting them in an investigation or a criminal trial related to the act of trafficking;
(2) In obtaining the legally required permits for entry into the Maldives for them;
(3) In filing a civil claim for compensation in a situation where it has been determined that they are a trafficked person.

(e) If the assistance of a translator is required to obtain the assistance provided under this Act, providing the service of such a translator.

36. Interviewing persons considered to be trafficked persons

A person considered to be a trafficked person shall be interviewed in an investigation related to a trafficking offence in a manner that protects their personal information and ensures that information about them is not disclosed to the public and the media.

37. Providing protection to persons considered to be trafficked persons

(a) If the safety of a person considered to be a trafficked person is at risk, the Maldives Police Service shall take the necessary measures to provide them with protection. In particular, efforts shall be made to protect them from acts of intimidation that may arise from a person accused in a trial related to a trafficking offence.

(b) The scope of protection available to persons considered to be trafficked persons under this Article, and the procedures to be followed in providing protection, shall be determined by the Ministry in the regulations made under this Act.

38. Repatriation of Maldivian citizens considered to be trafficked

(a) If the Ministry believes that an act of trafficking is occurring or has occurred outside the Maldives, and if the person considered to be a trafficked person is a Maldivian citizen, the Ministry shall agree to bring them to the Maldives without undue delay and with due regard for their rights, health, and other necessary protections, and shall provide assistance in making the necessary arrangements for their return.

(b) If a person brought to the Maldives under sub-article (a) is a person who does not possess the documents required for entry into the Maldives, the Controller shall, at their request or at the request of the country to which they were taken in connection with the act of trafficking, arrange for them to be provided with the documents and other permits required for their entry into the Maldives.

(c) If a person considered to be a trafficked person is a Maldivian citizen, and if they have requested to come to the Maldives, no employee of a state institution or any other person shall store, use, or disclose to any party any information concerning them if doing so could lead to the following:

(1) An obstruction to their departure from the Maldives;
(2) A legal obstruction to their travel to another country;
(3) The facilitation of an opportunity for discrimination against them because they are a person considered to be a trafficked person;
(4) A risk to their safety.

(d) For the purpose of sub-article (c), information about a person considered to be a trafficked person includes the reason for their arrival in the Maldives and the information that they are a person considered to be a trafficked person.

39. Verifying information and documents

(a) When a relevant authority of a foreign country submits a request to the Maldivian government to verify information in connection with any of the following matters, the relevant government agency shall verify those matters:

(1) That a person considered to be a trafficked person is a Maldivian citizen;
(2) If a document believed to have been used in trafficking is a document issued in the name of the Maldivian government, the validity of that document.

(b) If a person considered to be a trafficked person does not possess the documents required for entry into the Maldives, the Controller shall issue the documents required for their entry into the Maldives.

40. Repatriation of foreign nationals who have been trafficked

(a) If a person considered to be a trafficked person is a citizen of a foreign country, or if at the time the act of trafficking is believed to have occurred they were a permanent resident of a foreign country, and if they request to return to that country, the Ministry shall provide the necessary arrangements to send them to that country.

(b) The Controller shall arrange for a person being sent to a foreign country under sub-article (a) to be provided with the documents and other permits required for their travel to that country.

(c) If a person considered to be a trafficked person is repatriated to their country under this Article, or sent to a country where they had permanent residency at the time the act of trafficking occurred, the relevant government authority shall ensure that their repatriation is carried out with due regard for their rights, necessary protections, and any prosecution against them, and in accordance with the international treaties to which the Maldives is a party.

(d) If a citizen of a foreign country considered to be a trafficked person requests to return to their country, no employee of a state institution or any other person shall store, use, or disclose to any party any information concerning them if doing so could lead to the following:

(1) An act that could obstruct their departure from the Maldives;
(2) An act that could legally obstruct their travel to another country;
(3) The facilitation of an opportunity for discrimination against them because they are a person considered to be a trafficked person;
(4) A risk to their safety.

(e) For the purpose of sub-article (d), information about a person considered to be a trafficked person includes the reason for their return to their country and the information that they are a person considered to be a trafficked person.

(f) If there is reasonable evidence to believe that a person considered to be a trafficked person may be tortured, subjected to cruel punishment, or treated inhumanely in the country to which they have requested to be sent, the government shall decide on their repatriation under this Article only after considering these matters.

(g) To the extent that the information is available to the relevant government agencies, and if it is the most appropriate course of action in the circumstances, when repatriating a foreign national considered to be a trafficked person to their country under this Article, information regarding the following places and parties in that country shall be provided:

(1) Law enforcement agencies;
(2) Agencies providing assistance to trafficked persons;
(3) Legal counsels;
(4) Counsellors;
(5) Social welfare agencies.

Chapter Seven
Identifying trafficked persons

41. Ascertaining that a person has been trafficked

(a) All matters related to ascertaining whether a person considered to be a trafficked person is in fact a trafficked person shall be carried out by the Maldives Police Service.

(b) For every person determined under Article 31 of this Act to be a person considered to be a trafficked person, action shall be taken in accordance with the procedures in this Article. The Maldives Police Service shall do so within the period specified in Article 32 of this Act and in accordance with the procedures specified in the regulations made under this Act.

42. Establishing procedures for identifying trafficked persons

The procedures to be established and the processes to be followed to ascertain whether persons considered to be trafficked persons are in fact trafficked persons shall be formulated by the Coordinating Committee established by Article 60 of this Act, within 30 (thirty) days of this Act coming into effect.

43. Extending the period for identifying a trafficked person

(a) If a determination is not made within the period specified in Article 32 of this Act as to whether a particular person is a person considered to be a trafficked person, the Maldives Police Service has the discretion to extend the period specified in that Article.

(b) If the Maldives Police Service extends the period under sub-article (a), it shall inform the Controller, the Ministry, the party that determined the person to be a person considered to be a trafficked person under Article 31, and the person considered to be a trafficked person.

44. Determination of whether or not a person has been trafficked

If the Maldives Police Service determines under this Chapter whether a person considered to be a trafficked person is in fact a trafficked person or not, it shall inform the Controller, the Ministry, the party that determined the person to be a person considered to be a trafficked person under Article 31, and the person considered to be a trafficked person.

45. Right of appeal

If a person does not accept the determination made by the Maldives Police Service under Article 44 as to whether they are in fact a trafficked person or not, that person has the right to appeal the decision at the Ministry.

46. When a person considered to be a trafficked person has entered the country unlawfully

(a) In determining under Article 46 whether a person considered to be a trafficked person is in fact a trafficked person, if the Maldives Police Service believes, based on reasonable evidence, that they are a foreigner who has entered the Maldives unlawfully, it has the discretion to declare them a foreigner who has entered the Maldives unlawfully and to act against them in accordance with the laws and regulations established for dealing with such persons.

(b) If a person considered to be a trafficked person has entered the country unlawfully as a result of being a victim of an act of trafficking, they shall not be considered, for the purpose of sub-article (a), a foreigner who has entered the Maldives unlawfully.

47. Affording the protections for persons considered to be trafficked persons to identified trafficked persons

(a) If a person is determined to be a trafficked person by the Maldives Police Service under this Chapter, that person is entitled to all the rights and protections afforded to persons considered to be trafficked persons in this Act. This includes the following rights:

(1) The right to be provided information under Article 34 of this Act;
(2) The right to be provided the services afforded under Article 35 of this Act;
(3) The right to non-disclosure of their information during interviews, as afforded under Article 36 of this Act;
(4) The right to the protection afforded under Article 37 of this Act;
(5) If the trafficked person is a Maldivian citizen, the right to return to the Maldives under Article 38 of this Act and the right to have the government fulfil its responsibility to make the necessary arrangements for their return;
(6) The right to have the State fulfil its responsibility to verify information.

(b) Assistance specified in this Article shall be provided to a trafficked person if they agree to it.

48. Arranging a special visa

(a) Upon the expiration of the period specified in Article 32 of this Act, if the following conditions are met with respect to a trafficked person, the Controller may issue a special visa for them to remain in the Maldives:

(1) If they are cooperating with, or have agreed to cooperate with, the investigating party in an investigation conducted in the Maldives in relation to the act of trafficking;
(2) If they are cooperating with, or have agreed to cooperate with, the prosecuting party in a criminal trial conducted in the Maldives in relation to a trafficking offence.

(b) The duration of a visa issued under sub-article (a) shall not be less than 3 (three) months and not more than 12 (twelve) months.

(c) If a special visa is issued to a person under sub-article (a), the Controller shall extend the duration of the visa if requested by the prosecuting party or the presiding judge in a criminal trial conducted in the Maldives in relation to that act of trafficking.

(d) Notwithstanding sub-articles (a) and (b), nothing shall limit the discretion of the Controller to issue another type of visa to a trafficked person in accordance with the Immigration Act, in circumstances permitted by that Act.

(e) If a trafficked person applies for a visa to remain in the Maldives, a visa shall not be withheld from them on the grounds that they do not possess the necessary documents for entry into or stay in the Maldives because they entered the Maldives as a result of an act of trafficking.

49. Legal protection for unlawful entry into the country

If a person is determined to be a trafficked person in accordance with Article 44 of this Act, they shall not be prosecuted for having entered the Maldives unlawfully or for having remained in the Maldives unlawfully for that reason.

50. Cessation of assistance to a trafficked person

(a) The provision of assistance afforded to a trafficked person under Chapter Six and this Chapter of this Act shall cease if any of the following circumstances occur:

(1) Upon completion of the procedures to be followed by the Maldives Police Service under Article 41 of this Act regarding the identification of trafficked persons;
(2) The Maldives Police Service determines under Article 44 of this Act that the person is not a trafficked person.

(b) The procedures for ceasing assistance provided to a trafficked person under this Article shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

51. Protection afforded to family members of trafficked persons

(a) If, at the time a person is determined to be a trafficked person in accordance with Article 44 of this Act, a member of their family is in the Maldives, the family members are also entitled to the rights afforded to the trafficked person under Article 35 of this Act.

(b) The protection afforded to family members of trafficked persons under sub-article (a) of this Article is also extended to the family members of witnesses in a criminal trial for a trafficking offence.

Chapter Eight
Protection afforded to trafficked children

52. Providing special protection to children

In addition to receiving the protection afforded to every person who is trafficked or is considered to be a trafficked person under other articles of this Act, trafficked children are entitled to the following protections:

(a) To be given special attention and protection as a child when being provided the protection afforded under this Act;

(b) If the age of a trafficked person cannot be ascertained and there is reasonable evidence to believe they are a child, they shall be treated as a child until their age is ascertained, and shall be dealt with according to the procedures specified in this Act for children;

(c) If a trafficked child is a child not in the care of a person responsible for them, the Ministry shall act in the following manner:
(1) Appoint a legal guardian to defend the child's best interests;
(2) Take the necessary steps to ascertain the child's nationality and identity;
(3) If it is in the child's best interest to locate their family, make all possible efforts to find their family;
(4) When providing information to the trafficked child, do so in a language they know and a dialect they understand;
(5) If it becomes necessary to question or search a trafficked child, this shall be done by a special team trained in such matters concerning children, in an environment suitable for a child, in a language they know and a dialect they understand, and in the presence of their parent or legal guardian or another person designated to defend their interests.

53. Protection for children in relation to court proceedings

If a trafficked child is involved in a trial related to a trafficking offence, the hearings of that case shall be conducted in a court session not open to the public. And if a trafficked child has to give testimony in such a trial, their testimony shall be taken in such a way that they are not visible to the person accused of the crime.

54. Trafficked children and children considered to be trafficked

For the purpose of this Chapter, the meaning of a trafficked child includes children considered to be trafficked children and children identified as trafficked children.

Chapter Nine
Protection provided during the trial stage

55. Facilitating the opportunity to express views during the trial stage

(a) In a criminal trial related to a trafficking offence, the presiding judge shall provide the trafficked person in the case an opportunity to express their views or to defend their interests, in a manner that does not prejudice the rights of the person accused of the crime.

(b) The judge shall have regard for the information disclosed or the statements made by the trafficked person in an opportunity provided under sub-article (a) of this Article.

(c) In a trial mentioned in sub-article (a) of this Article, the trafficked person may present their statement personally or through a designated representative or a legal counsel.

56. Protection during court hearings

(a) When a trafficked person appears to give a statement in a trial mentioned in Article 55 of this Act, the judge may arrange for the following:

(1) To conduct the court hearings closed to the public; or
(2) To keep the recordings of the statements made during the court hearings confidential; or
(3) To take the statement of the trafficked person in a way that they are not visible to the person accused of the crime or so that their identity is not known; or
(4) Not to use the real name of the trafficked person when referring to them in the trial; or
(5) To accept as evidence in that trial a statement given by the trafficked person before a judge during the investigation phase.

(b) The presiding judge shall not allow irrelevant or indecent questions to be put to the trafficked person.

57. Protection afforded to witnesses

(a) A person who gives testimony as a prosecution witness in a criminal trial related to a trafficking offence is entitled to the protection specified in Article 56 of this Act.

(b) The Maldives Police Service shall provide a witness under sub-article (a) of this Article with information on the case in which they are testifying.

(c) A witness shall be interviewed in a manner that protects their personal information and ensures that information about them is not disclosed to the public and the media.

(d) If the safety of a witness is at risk, the Maldives Police Service shall take the necessary measures to provide them with protection. In particular, efforts shall be made to protect them from acts of intimidation that may arise from a person accused in a trial related to a trafficking offence.

58. Filing a civil suit to obtain compensation for damages

(a) A trafficked person has the right to file a suit to obtain compensation for the damages suffered in connection with a human trafficking offence.

(b) The fact that a criminal prosecution has been initiated or a trial is in progress in relation to a trafficking offence shall not be considered an obstacle to filing a civil suit under sub-article (a) of this Article in relation to that act.

59. Awarding of compensation

(a) In a situation where a person is convicted of an offence specified in Article 17, Article 18, Article 19, Article 20, or Article 21 of this Act, in addition to the punishment prescribed under this Act, the court shall award compensation to the trafficked person from the trafficker in accordance with this Article.

(b) The following types of compensation may be awarded under this Article for the damages suffered by the trafficked person:

(1) Unpaid wages due to them;
(2) Amounts unlawfully deducted from wages;
(3) Recruitment fees unlawfully paid to an employment agency or a recruitment agency;
(4) Amounts deducted from wages as a disciplinary measure;
(5) The cost of medical treatment required due to a health condition caused by being a victim of trafficking;
(6) Compensation for other direct damages.

(c) When awarding compensation under this Article, the court shall determine, with reference to this Article, the type and amount of compensation to be awarded to the trafficked person.

59-1. Confiscation of proceeds of crime by the State

(a) Property and money used to commit an offence specified in this Act and obtained from the criminal act shall be confiscated by the State.

(b) The confiscation of money specified in sub-article (a) of this Article shall be carried out in accordance with the procedures specified in the Criminal Procedure Act.

Part Four
Regarding the prevention of human trafficking

Chapter Ten
Coordinating Committee

60. Coordinating Committee on trafficking matters

(a) To oversee whether the matters required to be carried out under this Act are being carried out as such, and to oversee whether the measures being taken by various state institutions under this Act are being taken in the manner specified in this Act, a Coordinating Committee on trafficking matters shall be established by the President of the Republic under this Act.

(b) The Committee established under this Article shall be composed of 10 (ten) members appointed from the following sectors:

(1) An employee of the Ministry, designated by the Ministry;
(2) A legal counsel from the Attorney General's Office, designated by the Attorney General;
(3) An employee of Maldives Immigration, designated by the Controller;
(4) An employee of the Maldives Customs Service, designated by that Service;
(5) An officer of the Maldives Police Service, designated by that Service;
(6) An employee of the Labour Relations Authority, designated by that Authority;
(7) An employee of the Ministry of Economic Development, designated by that Ministry;
(8) An employee of the Ministry of Home Affairs, designated by that Ministry;
(9) An employee of the Ministry of Gender, Family and Social Services, designated by that Ministry;
(10) A member of a non-governmental organization working to prevent human trafficking, from that organization.

(c) The members appointed to the Committee under sub-article (b) of this Article shall be persons capable of carrying out the work necessary to achieve the objectives of the Committee.

(d) The Committee specified in sub-article (a) of this Article shall be appointed within 30 (thirty) days of this Act coming into effect.

61. Chairperson of the Committee

(a) The Chairperson of the Committee shall be the member representing the Ministry on the Committee.

(b) The Chairperson of the Committee shall plan the work of the Committee and organize its meetings.

62. Responsibilities of the Committee

(a) The responsibilities of the Committee established under Article 60 of this Act include the following:

(1) Advising the President of the Republic on the measures to be taken at different times and in different circumstances to prevent acts of trafficking;
(2) Monitoring whether the policies determined by the government regarding the prevention of acts of trafficking are being implemented by government agencies;
(3) Determining the national-level programs to be conducted to prevent acts of trafficking, setting the targets to be achieved by those programs, and establishing the standards for conducting those programs;
(4) Working to conduct programs in the Maldives in collaboration with foreign agencies working on the prevention of acts of human trafficking, sharing information, and seeking benefits, advantages, and assistance for the Maldives from their information and experience;
(5) Monitoring the implementation of various programs conducted in the Maldives to prevent acts of trafficking and coordinating the work of all relevant agencies;
(6) Seeking the cooperation of private parties in the work to be done to prevent trafficking, providing necessary assistance and advice for the work done by private parties, and working in collaboration with such parties;
(7) Working in collaboration with all relevant agencies to increase awareness among all parties in society in the work to be done to prevent trafficking.

(b) The Committee is empowered to do what is necessary to carry out the matters specified as the objectives of the Committee in sub-article (a) of this Article.

63. Quorum for meetings

(a) The quorum for a meeting of the Committee is 51% (fifty-one percent) of the total members of the Committee.

(b) A decision of the Committee shall be deemed passed if it is passed by a majority of the Committee members.

64. National Action Plan on the prevention of trafficking

(a) The Committee shall formulate a National Action Plan on the prevention of trafficking once every year.

(b) Within 6 (six) months of this Act coming into effect, the Committee shall formulate and publish the first Action Plan to be formulated under sub-article (a) of this Article.

65. Annual Report

Based on the work done by the Committee, the Committee shall submit a report to the President of the Republic and the People's Majlis before the end of July each year. And after submitting the report to the President of the Republic and the People's Majlis, the Committee shall publicly publish the report.

Part Five
Miscellaneous

66. Establishing cooperation between agencies

(a) To achieve the following objectives, law enforcement agencies and other relevant agencies shall cooperate with and share information with each other regarding the identification and prevention of offences by persons who commit crimes specified in this Act, and regarding the provision of protection to trafficked persons:

(1) To identify traffickers and trafficked persons;
(2) To identify what types of travel documents are commonly used for human trafficking;
(3) To identify the means and methods commonly used for human trafficking;
(4) To identify the practices followed at an international level to prevent human trafficking;
(5) To protect and provide assistance to trafficked persons and witnesses.

(b) Government agencies shall work in collaboration with non-governmental organizations and international organizations in determining and implementing policies related to the prevention of human trafficking, and in implementing measures and programs to prevent human trafficking.

Chapter Eleven
General Provisions

67. Scope of the Act

(a) This Act shall apply to any act established as an offence in this Act if it is committed in any of the following circumstances:

(1) The criminal act is committed within the territory of the Maldives;
(2) The criminal act is committed on a vessel registered in the Maldives, or such a vessel is used to commit the crime;
(3) The party suspected of committing the crime is a Maldivian citizen.

(b) Even if an offence established as a crime in this Act is committed outside the Maldives, this Act shall apply to that act if it is committed in any of the following circumstances:

(1) The party suspected of committing the crime is a Maldivian citizen;
(2) The party who suffered loss as a result of the crime is a Maldivian citizen.

68. Acts committed outside the territory of the Maldives

(a) If a person suspected of committing an act specified as a trafficking offence in this Act in another country is believed to be in the territory of the Maldives, and if the Minister deems it necessary, based on intelligence information available to the relevant Maldivian authorities, to arrest and detain that person, or to prevent them from leaving the Maldives, or to ensure they remain in the country until the measures specified in this Act can be taken against them, the Minister shall order the police to take such measures against them.

(b) The measures taken under sub-article (a) of this Article shall be to the extent necessary to repatriate them to their country or to prosecute them in the Maldives under this Act.

69. Making and implementing regulations

(a) Unless expressly stated otherwise in this Act, the regulations necessary for the implementation of this Act shall be made and implemented by the Ministry.

(b) The regulations specified in sub-article (a) of this Article shall be made by the Ministry and published in the Government Gazette within 3 (three) months of this Act coming into effect.

70. Commencement of the Act

This Act shall come into effect on the day it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

71. Definitions

Unless the context in which the phrase is used in this Act expressly requires otherwise:

"A citizen of a foreign country" refers to any person who is not a Maldivian citizen.

"Ministry" refers to the government ministry to which the responsibility of implementing policies related to the prevention of human trafficking is assigned at the time.

"Controller" refers to the Controller of Immigration and Emigration specified in Law No. 1/2007 (Maldives Immigration Act).

"Immigration Act" refers to Law No. 1/2007 (Maldives Immigration Act), including its amendments.

"Child" refers to a child who has not completed 18 (eighteen) years of age according to the Gregorian calendar.

"Document containing identity information" refers to a document issued by an official authority of the country to which a person belongs, for the purpose of identifying that particular person.

"Committee" refers to the Coordinating Committee on trafficking matters established under Article 60 of this Act.

"Criminal organization" has the meaning given to that phrase in the Penal Code of the Maldives.

"Entry" refers to a person entering the territory of the Maldives, whether unlawfully or lawfully.

"Vessel" includes sea vessels and aircraft.

"Public official" refers to an employee of any state institution.

"Ministry of Health" refers to the government ministry to which the responsibility of overseeing matters of the health sector is assigned at the time.

"Human Resources Ministry" refers to the government ministry to which the responsibility of implementing policies related to employed persons is assigned at the time.

"Medical test" includes laboratory tests required for health purposes, other analyses, taking X-rays, conducting scans, and procedures such as surgery.

"An employee of a law enforcement agency" refers to an employee of an agency that is empowered by this Act or any other law to investigate an offence specified in this Act.

"Travel document" refers to a passport, a temporary travel document, or any other document internationally accepted for travel, issued by a relevant national authority for international air travel or sea travel.
