Public Health Emergency Act 2020

Chapter One

Introduction

Introduction and Title

1.

(a) This is an Act to establish special measures to provide assistance and protection to individuals, families, and businesses, and to facilitate the uninterrupted continuation of the system of governance during the state of public health emergency declared in the Maldives in connection with COVID-19, by making necessary temporary amendments to the procedures prescribed in relevant laws and establishing special procedures relating thereto.

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Public Health Emergency Act 2020".

Purpose

    The purposes of this Act are as follows:

(a) To provide assistance to families facing difficulties in meeting essential needs due to the state of public health emergency declared in the Maldives in connection with COVID-19;

(b) To provide temporary shelter for persons who have lost their housing due to the state of public health emergency declared in the Maldives in connection with COVID-19;

(c) To provide the legal protection necessary to prevent any person from becoming homeless during the state of public health emergency declared in the Maldives in connection with COVID-19;

(d) To arrange special leave for persons whose ability to perform their employment responsibilities is hindered due to COVID-19;

(e) To stipulate that, except in special exceptional circumstances, changes to employment status in connection with COVID-19 shall not be permitted;

(f) To establish the special procedures necessary to facilitate the uninterrupted continuation of the system of governance during the state of public health emergency declared in connection with COVID-19.

Duration of the Act

    This Act shall remain in effect until the end of the 60 (sixty) day period following the termination of the state of public health emergency declared in the Maldives in connection with COVID-19, or any other state of emergency or disaster declared in the Maldives in connection with COVID-19 after the commencement of this Act.

Chapter Two

Special Employment Principles

Provision of Special Leave in Case of Quarantine

4.

(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law, during the state of public health emergency declared in the Maldives in connection with COVID-19, an employer shall grant special paid leave, without the requirement of a medical certificate, to employees who are required to be quarantined in a quarantine facility, at home, or in any other place due to returning after traveling abroad or leaving a specific island within the Maldives, for the duration they are required to stay in such a facility, home, or place.

(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law, during the state of public health emergency declared in connection with COVID-19, an employer shall grant special paid leave, without the requirement of a medical certificate, to employees who are required to stay in a quarantine facility, at home, or in any other place due to showing symptoms suspected of the disease, for that duration.

(c) In the circumstances described in subsections (a) and (b) of this section, any person who has a document issued by the Director General of Public Health or a person designated by him, instructing the employee to be quarantined under the Public Health Protection Act, shall be granted the leave specified in those two subsections.

(d) For the purpose of this section, "quarantine" and "quarantine facility" shall have the meanings given to those terms in Law No. 7/2012 (Public Health Protection Act).

Provision of Leave for Persons Unable to Attend Work due to Special Travel Measures

5.

(a) During the state of public health emergency declared in connection with COVID-19, if an employee is on an island other than their island of residence and is unable to return to their island of employment by the date they are required to report to work due to a measure taken by the Director General of Public Health regarding travel, the employer shall grant special paid leave, without the requirement of a medical certificate, for the period the employee was unable to attend work.

(b) In the circumstances described in subsection (a) of this section, any person who has notified the employer of their inability to travel from their current island due to a measure taken by the Director General of Public Health, and possesses an order or document issued by the Director General of Public Health or a person designated by him in relation to that measure, shall be granted the leave specified in that section.

Provision of Sick Leave for Persons Testing Positive

6.

(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law, during the state of public health emergency declared in connection with COVID-19, if an employee who tests positive for the disease is required to stay in an isolation facility or at home, or is required to stay in a healthcare facility for treatment, the employer shall grant special paid sick leave, without the requirement of a medical certificate, for that duration.

(b) Any person who has a document issued by the Director General of Public Health or a person designated by him under the Public Health Protection Act, stating that they have tested positive for COVID-19 and are required to stay in an isolation facility or at home, or a document from a healthcare facility confirming treatment for the disease, shall be granted the leave specified in subsection (a) of this section by the employer.

(c) For the purpose of this section, "isolation facility" shall have the meaning given to that term in Law No. 7/2012 (Public Health Protection Act).

Provision of Family Responsibility Leave

7.

(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law, during the state of public health emergency declared in connection with COVID-19, if a family member of an employee tests positive for the disease, and that family member is a person under the direct care of the employee, and the treatment for the disease is required to be administered at home, the employer shall grant special paid family responsibility leave, without the requirement of a medical certificate, for the duration the family member is undergoing treatment.

(b) In the circumstances described in subsection (a) of this section, if the family member undergoing treatment is required to be in an isolation facility or a healthcare facility, and the employee is required to stay with them in such a place, the leave specified in subsection (a) of this section shall also be granted.

(c) In the circumstances described in subsections (a) and (b) of this section, the employee shall submit a document issued by the Director General of Public Health under the Public Health Protection Act, stating that the employee's family member has tested positive for the disease and is required to stay at home or another place for treatment.

Days Granted as Special Leave Not to be Deducted from Other Leave Entitlements of the Employee

8.

(a) The special leave that an employer is required to grant under sections 4 to 7 of this Act shall be granted as special leave in addition to, and not deducted from, any leave to which the employee is entitled under Law No. 2/2008 (Employment Act) or any other law or regulation applicable to the employee's employment.

(b) If an employee is entitled to more than one type of leave among the leaves that an employer is required to grant to employees under sections 4 to 7 of this Act, all such leaves shall be granted to that employee in accordance with the principle stated in subsection (a) of this section.

Permissible Circumstances for Amending Employment Agreements or Terminating Employment in Connection with COVID-19

9.

(a) Except in the exceptional circumstances specified in subsection (b) of this section, during the period specified in section 3 of this Act, an employer shall not take any of the following measures against an employee in connection with COVID-19:

(1) Deducting any amount from the employee's wages or postponing the date for payment of wages stipulated in the employment agreement;

(2) Sending the employee on unpaid leave;

(3) Terminating the employee from employment.

(b) A measure such as those specified in subsection (a) of this section may be taken by an employer only if the employer's business has been negatively affected by COVID-19, and as a result of such negative impact, the employer's income has decreased to a level where the employer is unable to continue paying the salaries and benefits previously provided to employees. A regulation specifying the principles for determining whether a business has been negatively affected shall be formulated by the relevant Ministry specified in section 46 of this Act and published in the Government Gazette within 14 (fourteen) days of the commencement of this Act.

(c) A measure specified in subsection (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section may be taken against an employee only after consulting with the employee and if the employee agrees to the change.

(d) The measure specified in subsection (a)(3) of this section may be taken against an employee only if the circumstance described in subsection (b) of this section has occurred, leading to a situation where the employer must release some employees, and only after fulfilling the following procedures before taking such action:

(1) Informing the employees that some employees must be released due to the deterioration of the employer's financial situation; and

(2) Informing the employees of the principles the employer has decided to follow in selecting the employees to be terminated.

(e) For the purpose of subsection (d) of this section, an employee of an employer may be released due to the occurrence of the situation described in subsection (b) of this section only if it is necessary to restructure the employer's workforce. Releasing an employee of the employer without such a restructuring of the workforce and then appointing another employee to that position shall not be considered a valid reason for releasing an employee for the purpose of subsection (d) of this section.

(f) If any measure is taken against an employee under subsection (a) of this section, the employee must be notified of the matter and given adequate notice as specified in the employment agreement before taking such a measure. In circumstances where notice cannot be given, the employee must be paid the amount due in lieu of notice.

(g) If the measure taken against an employee is termination from employment, all wages accrued to that employee up to that point, payment in lieu of annual leave days, overtime pay, and all other such payments shall be made to that employee.

(h) If a measure is taken against an employee in one of the circumstances specified in subsection (a) of this section, it is the responsibility of the employer to prove that the measure was taken against the employee in accordance with the law.

(i) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, this Act does not prevent the taking of necessary measures against an employee in accordance with the Employment Act (Law No. 2/2008) in circumstances permitted under that Act.

Granting the Right to Submit Cases to the Tribunal for Persons Dismissed from Employment in Connection with COVID-19

10.

(a) If any person takes action against an employee in contravention of section 9 of this Act, that employee has the right to submit a complaint regarding the matter to the Employment Tribunal.

(b) A case under subsection (a) of this section shall be submitted to the Tribunal before the later of the following two dates: the date on which 90 (ninety) days have passed since the action was taken against the employee, and the date on which 30 (thirty) days have passed since the end of the state of emergency declared in connection with COVID-19.

Chapter Three

Special Principles for Healthcare and Health Professionals

Arrangement of Health Insurance for COVID-19 Treatment

11.

(a) In a situation where a Maldivian citizen contracts COVID-19 and requires treatment for the disease, arrangements shall be made to provide the necessary treatment through the national insurance scheme established under Law No. 15/2011 (National Social Health Insurance Scheme Act) or through a scheme or fund specifically established for COVID-19 in accordance with the laws and regulations of the Maldives.

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this section, treatment for COVID-19 shall include both inpatient treatment requiring admission to a healthcare facility and outpatient treatment not requiring such admission. This includes doctor's consultations, tests, and medication costs.

Arrangement of COVID-19 Treatment for Foreigners

12.

(a) Foreigners residing in the Maldives shall be provided with the necessary treatment for COVID-19 under the health insurance scheme in which they are enrolled.

(b) Notwithstanding the provision in subsection (a) of this section, if foreign employees are not enrolled in a health insurance scheme as required by the Employment Act and regulations, the employer shall be responsible for the costs incurred for such foreign employees. Even if enrolled in an insurance scheme, the employer shall be responsible for the costs of treatment not covered by that scheme.

(c) The government shall arrange for the provision of necessary healthcare related to COVID-19 for foreigners who are under the care of a relevant government authority, among those foreigners whose permits to stay in the Maldives for work have expired.

(d) Except in the circumstances specified in subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this section, the cost of healthcare provided to foreigners in relation to COVID-19 shall be borne by the foreigner themselves.

Establishing Special Procedures for the Registration of Health Service Professionals

13.

(a) During the state of public health emergency declared in connection with COVID-19, if healthcare service professionals required to work in an emergency situation cannot be registered under the procedures specified in Law No. 13/2015 (Health Service Professionals Act) and the regulations made thereunder, the relevant councils specified in that Act are empowered to proceed with registration under this chapter without completing those procedures.

(b) Registration under this chapter shall proceed only in a situation where the number of registered healthcare service providers is less than the number required to provide treatment to those who need it in connection with COVID-19, upon notification from the Ministry of Health.

(c) For the purposes of this chapter:

(1) "Health service professionals" or "health professionals" refers to medical practitioners, nurses, and allied health professionals among the health service professionals.

(2) "Relevant council" refers to the Medical and Dental Council, the Nursing and Midwifery Council, and the Allied Health Council as specified in the Health Service Professionals Act.

(3) "Health service professionals required to work in an emergency situation" refers to medical practitioners, nurses, and allied health professionals working in the emergency response to COVID-19.

Conditions for Registration in an Emergency

14.

(a) The relevant councils are empowered to register health service professionals under this chapter as follows:

(1) Temporarily registering persons who have obtained a specific qualification required to work in a particular profession but are not registered in that profession due to not having completed additional training or an examination.

(2) Temporarily registering persons whose registration or license has been temporarily suspended, under this chapter.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, temporary registration under this chapter shall only be granted to persons whom the respective council deems professionally and ethically fit for the work of that profession.

(c) In registering a person or persons under this chapter, the relevant council may impose conditions to comply with the requirements established for that profession under the law, or may establish special conditions that such persons must comply with.

Status and Duration of Emergency Registration

15.

(a) For as long as their registration remains valid, healthcare professionals registered under this chapter shall be considered as persons registered under Section 49 of the Health Service Professionals Act. Furthermore, persons so registered are hereby granted temporary authorization by this Act to practice in the health service profession to which they belong, without obtaining an additional license.

(b) The authorization for a healthcare professional registered under this chapter to practice in the profession for which they are registered shall remain in effect until the state of public health emergency declared in connection with COVID-19 comes to an end, or until their registration is revoked, whichever comes first.

(c) As persons registered under this chapter are registered on a temporary basis, the relevant council is empowered to revoke the registration of any such person at any time.

Powers of the Registrar

16.

(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Health Service Professionals Act, a council may decide to authorize its Registrar to perform a specific function that the council is empowered to perform under this Act.

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this section, a specific function that a council is empowered to perform refers to matters that a council must decide on, in addition to the powers granted to the Registrar of a council under the Health Service Professionals Act.

Non-Appealability of Decisions

    A decision to register or to revoke the registration of a person in the registration of health professionals under this chapter is not a decision that can be appealed in a court of law or any other state institution.

Registration of Information of Registered Persons

    The relevant councils shall separately register the information of healthcare professionals registered under this chapter and make arrangements for it to be publicly accessible.

Establishing Special Procedures for Temporary Registration

    In the event that the special procedures specified in this chapter need to be implemented due to the situation described in section 13(b) of this Act, the relevant council shall formulate and publish in the Government Gazette a regulation establishing the special procedures to be followed in registering healthcare professionals under this chapter.

Chapter Four

Protective Measures Relating to Dwellings and Basic Services

Requirement to Give Notice for Eviction from Rented Residential Properties

20.

(a) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in an agreement for the rental of a property for residential purposes existing at the commencement of this Act, the owner of any property rented for residential purposes may terminate the agreement and require the occupants to vacate the property only after giving the occupants at least 60 (sixty) days' notice.

(b) Even if a property rented for residential use at the commencement of this Act was rented without a written agreement, the owner of such a property may require the occupants to vacate the property only after giving the occupants at least 60 (sixty) days' notice.

(c) The notice to vacate the premises given by the owner of the property under subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall be in writing.

(d) In the circumstances specified in subsections (a) and (b), the tenant shall not be ordered to vacate the property before the expiry of the period specified in those two subsections. Furthermore, no practical action, including filing a lawsuit, shall be taken to evict such a person from the property.

(e) Even in a situation where the owner of the property has given notice to the tenant to vacate the residential property under subsections (a) and (b), both parties shall continue to fulfill the other obligations specified in the rental agreement.

(f) For the purpose of this section, "owner of the property" includes the owner of the rented property, the party who has rented out the property, and any person representing either party.

(g) For the purpose of this section, ordering to vacate a residential property means an order given by the owner of the property to the person occupying it on rent, to leave the property in order to evict them.

(h) If any person acts in contravention of this section, the person who is the victim of such an act has the right to submit a complaint to the Ministry of National Planning, Housing and Infrastructure.

(i) A regulation specifying the procedures for examining complaints submitted under subsection (h) of this section shall be formulated by the Ministry of National Planning, Housing and Infrastructure and published in the Government Gazette within 14 (fourteen) days of the commencement of this Act.

Non-Interruption of Basic Services

21.

(a) During the period specified in section 3 of this Act, the owner of any property rented for residential purposes, or any other person representing such party, shall not do any of the following in relation to that property:

(1) Interrupting water, electricity, and communication services;

(2) Committing acts that hinder the tenant's peaceful enjoyment of the property.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an act contrary to this section is a fine of MVR 5,000 (five thousand).

(c) If any person acts in contravention of this section, the person who is the victim of such an act has the right to submit a complaint to the Ministry of National Planning, Housing and Infrastructure.

(d) A regulation specifying the procedures for examining complaints submitted under subsection (c) of this section shall be formulated by the Ministry of National Planning, Housing and Infrastructure and published in the Government Gazette within 14 (fourteen) days of the commencement of this Act.

No Action to be Taken for Foreclosure of Mortgage

22.

(a) Although a mortgagee generally has the right to foreclose on a mortgage under Law No. 9/93 (Mortgage Act) in the event of default on a debt secured by mortgaged immovable property, during the period specified in section 3 of this Act, no action shall be taken by the mortgagee or any other party to foreclose on such a mortgage against persons who are unable to pay the debt due in relation to a residential plot, building, or any other such place.

(b) In the circumstances specified in subsection (a) of this section, actions for the purpose of foreclosing a mortgage include filing a case in court and initiating any other procedures specified in the Mortgage Act.

(c) If any stage of foreclosure of a mortgage as specified in subsection (a) of this section has been initiated before the commencement of this Act, upon the commencement of this Act, that matter is hereby temporarily suspended until the end of the period specified in subsection (a) of this section.

Chapter Five

Providing Assistance to Persons in Need

Providing Temporary Shelter for Homeless Persons

23.

(a) The government shall provide temporary shelter until the end of the period specified in section 3 of this Act for persons whose income has been adversely affected by COVID-19 at the time of commencement of this Act and who have become homeless, or for persons who face such a situation after the commencement of this Act.

(b) Temporary shelter under this section shall be provided on an equitable basis and in a place with adequate facilities for hygiene, sanitation, sleeping, and eating and drinking.

(c) A regulation specifying the procedures to be followed by the government in providing temporary shelter under subsection (a) of this section shall be formulated and published in the Government Gazette within 14 (fourteen) days of the commencement of this Act.

Assisting Persons in Need without Access to Food

24.

(a) The government shall provide food until the end of the period specified in section 3 of this Act for persons whose income has been adversely affected by COVID-19 at the time of commencement of this Act and who are in need without food, or for persons who face such a situation after the commencement of this Act.

(b) In providing food under subsection (a) of this section, the following methods may be employed:

(1) Providing food or providing financial assistance in lieu of food; and

(2) Providing food through the government or a third party.

(c) Food under this section shall be provided on an equitable basis and after taking adequate safety measures to prevent COVID-19.

(d) A regulation specifying the procedures to be followed by the government in providing food under subsection (a) of this section shall be formulated and published in the Government Gazette within 14 (fourteen) days of the commencement of this Act.

Arranging Temporary Treatment for Persons Addicted to Narcotics

25.

(a) During the period specified in section 3 of this Act, the National Drug Agency shall arrange for the provision of temporary detoxification treatment, in accordance with sections 26 to 30 of this Act, for persons addicted to narcotics who are taken into police custody for violating laws and regulations, and for persons taken to quarantine and isolation facilities.

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this section, "person addicted to narcotics" shall have the meaning given to that term in section 11 of Law No. 17/2011 (Narcotics Act).

(c) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this section, "detoxification treatment" means the treatment given to physically eliminate the level of addiction to narcotics in a drug user and the extent to which the poison of the narcotic has affected their body and senses.

(d) A regulation specifying the procedures for arranging temporary detoxification treatment under subsection (a) of this section shall be formulated by the National Drug Agency and published in the Government Gazette within 14 (fourteen) days of the commencement of this Act.

Designation of Temporary Treatment Center

26.

(a) Detoxification treatment under section 25 of this Act shall be provided through a treatment center designated for this purpose by the National Drug Agency.

(b) The center referred to in subsection (a) of this section shall be operated and maintained by the National Drug Agency. Upon request by the agency, the Maldives Police Service shall make arrangements for the security of the center.

Eligible Persons for Treatment

    Detoxification treatment under section 25 of this Act may be provided to the following persons:

(a) Persons over the age of 18 (eighteen) who are addicted to narcotics, among those taken into police custody for violating laws and regulations and those taken to quarantine and isolation facilities;

(b) Children under the age of 18 (eighteen) who are addicted to narcotics, among those taken into police custody for violating laws and regulations and those taken to quarantine and isolation facilities.

Treatment Programs

28.

(a) The detoxification treatment provided under Section 25 of this Act shall be a treatment provided in one of the following two ways at the treatment center specified in Section 26 of this Act:

(1) Through an in-patient service provided at the treatment center; or

(2) Through an out-patient service run by the treatment center.

(b) The treatment programs conducted under subsection (a) of this section shall be treatment programs that consist of components suitable for providing detoxification treatment and that conform to relevant international standards.

(c) The detoxification treatment program conducted as an out-patient service under subsection (a)(2) of this section shall be a treatment program provided in a manner that allows for the regular monitoring and supervision of the persons receiving treatment under the program.

General Principle of Treatment Provision

29.

(a) Detoxification treatment under Section 25 of this Act shall be provided with the consent of the person receiving the treatment.

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this section, if the person receiving treatment is a minor, the consent of the child's guardian must also be obtained, in addition to the child's.

(c) No person shall be enrolled in a treatment program conducted under Section 25 of this Act except after being tested and an assessment of their condition has been made under Section 30 of this Act.

Testing and Assessment

30.

(a) No person shall be given treatment under a detoxification treatment program except after being tested for narcotics to identify the substance to which they are addicted, and after determining the necessary medication or treatment to physically eliminate the poison of that narcotic from their body and senses.

(b) After conducting the test referred to in subsection (a) of this section, an assessment of the person shall be made, taking into account the following factors:

(1) The type of narcotics they have been using and the duration of their use;

(2) The rate at which withdrawal symptoms have begun to appear in them;

(3) Whether or not there is a person or persons in their place of residence to monitor their condition;

(4) The likelihood of them using another narcotic after starting the treatment program;

(5) Whether or not they can be regularly monitored according to the prescribed procedure;

(6) Their physical and mental condition.

(c) The assessment conducted under subsection (b) of this section shall be an assessment made to separately identify the condition of each person.

(d) No medication shall be given to any person under a detoxification treatment program except in accordance with a prescription from a relevant healthcare professional, and in a manner that allows the amount of medication administered to that person to be monitored.

Chapter Six

Special Tax Provisions

Temporary Deferral of Tax Payments

31.

(a) The Government is empowered to temporarily defer, until a date determined by the Government, the deadline prescribed in a tax law for the payment of a tax due to the State to the Maldives Inland Revenue Authority.

(b) If the payment of a tax is deferred under subsection (a) of this section, the period of deferral and the date on which payments shall resume shall be determined by the Government and published in the Government Gazette.

Deferral of Submission of Tax Returns and Other Documents

32.

(a) If the deadline for payment of any tax is deferred under section 31 of this Act, the Maldives Inland Revenue Authority shall defer the submission of tax returns and any other related documents that must be submitted to the Authority.

(b) The administrative arrangements to be made by the Maldives Inland Revenue Authority in deferring tax payments under section 31(a) of this Act shall be publicly published.

Consequence of Deferral of Tax Payments

    Where it is stated that the payment of a particular tax is deferred under this chapter, what is deferred is the deadline by which the tax payment is due to the State. Unless otherwise provided in any other law, if the said payment is not made within the new period or on the new date set for payment after the deferral period has expired, the State shall have the power to collect the said payment under Law No. 3/2010 (Tax Administration Act).

Chapter Seven

Certain Procedures Relating to Courts and Tribunals

Establishing Special Procedures for Public Court Hearings

34.

(a) During the state of public health emergency declared in connection with COVID-19, courts and tribunals shall make arrangements to provide the public with the opportunity to hear court and tribunal hearings that are required to be held in public, in a manner that allows for necessary safety measures to be taken.

(b) The procedures established by the courts for the purpose of this section shall be publicly published.

Conducting Trials via Audio or Video Link

35.

(a) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any other law, for as long as the state of public health emergency declared in connection with COVID-19 remains in effect, arrangements shall be made in the courts to conduct hearings of courts and tribunals via audio or video link.

(b) Notwithstanding that a particular law or regulation may state that testimony must be taken by summoning witnesses to the court's session or the case hearing, in the circumstances specified in subsection (a) of this section, the judge or tribunal member hearing the case has the discretion to take testimony via video link.

(c) In deciding to conduct a trial via audio or video link under subsection (a) of this section, the judge or tribunal member shall consider the following:

(1) The nature of the case;

(2) The level of risk of COVID-19 in the Maldives as stated by the relevant government authority;

(3) Measures taken by relevant government authorities to control COVID-19 in the Maldives;

(4) The extent to which the parties required to participate in the hearing are capable of participating via audio or video link.

(d) If it is decided to conduct hearings of courts and tribunals via audio or video link under this section, arrangements shall be made by the courts and tribunals to hold the hearings in public, except in the circumstances specified in Article 42(n) of the Constitution or as provided in any other law.

(e) For the purpose of subsection (d) of this section, arranging for trials conducted via audio or video link to be seen or heard by the public in a prescribed manner by the courts or tribunals shall be considered as holding trials in public.

Filing Cases and Delivering Documents via Electronic Means

    Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any other law, for as long as the state of public health emergency declared in connection with COVID-19 remains in effect, arrangements shall be made in courts and tribunals to allow for the filing of cases and documents with the court or tribunal, and the delivery of documents to be served on parties and other persons, via electronic means.

Relaxation of Statutory Deadlines

37.

(a) If a law requires a particular case to be submitted to court within a period shorter than 10 (ten) days, and this is affected by a change in general working hours or a stay-at-home order issued in connection with measures taken during the state of emergency declared in relation to COVID-19, the relevant party shall be entitled to an additional period of 10 (ten) days to do so.

(b) The deadlines specified in subsection (a) of this section do not include the time limit prescribed by law for bringing persons arrested on suspicion of a crime before a judge.

(c) If a law prescribes a period longer than the period specified in subsection (a) of this section for filing a particular case in court, priority should be given to doing so within that period. However, if the relevant party finds that a particular case cannot be filed in court before the expiry of that period due to the declared state of public health emergency, that party has the discretion to extend that period with the permission of the court.

Amending Rules of Courts and Tribunals and Formulating Procedures

38.

(a) For the purpose of this chapter, courts and tribunals are empowered to temporarily amend, to the relevant extent, the procedures applicable to the filing of cases, the summoning of persons, the conduct of trials and hearings, and the service of documents in the rules of courts and tribunals, and to formulate new procedures as required.

(b) The regulations to be amended and the procedures to be formulated for the purpose of this chapter shall be formulated and published in the Government Gazette within 14 (fourteen) days of the commencement of this Act.

Chapter Eight

Principles of State Administration

Conducting matters requiring physical presence via audio or video link

39.

(a) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any other law, this Act does not prevent an act required by law to be performed in the physical presence of a relevant state authority from being performed via audio or video link during the period specified in section 3 of this Act.

(b) Arrangements for matters in accordance with the principle stated in subsection (a) of this section shall be made in accordance with procedures publicly published by the relevant state authority.

Issuing and Delivering Documents via Electronic Means

40.

(a) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any other law, a document required to be issued by a government office to any person may be issued via electronic means during the period specified in section 3 of this Act.

(b) The document referred to in subsection (a) of this section shall be issued in accordance with the procedures specified in the relevant law or regulation; however, this section does not prevent making necessary amendments to the document to allow its issuance via electronic means.

(c) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any other law or agreement, a document required to be delivered by a government office to any person by post or by hand may be delivered via electronic means during the period specified in section 3 of this Act.

Submitting Documents via Electronic Means

41.

(a) Documents that must be submitted by any person to a government office in order to obtain a service provided by that office or for any other reason may be submitted via electronic means during the period specified in section 3 of this Act.

(b) Arrangements for matters in accordance with the principle stated in subsection (a) of this section shall be made in accordance with procedures publicly published by the relevant state authority.

Submission and Auditing of Financial Statements

42.

(a) If the deadline or date prescribed by a relevant law for the submission of a financial statement or annual report by a government office, a bank, a non-bank financial institution, a legal entity, or any other party required by law falls within the period specified in section 3 of this Act, compliance with the deadline or date prescribed by that law is suspended upon the commencement of this Act.

(b) If the deadline or date prescribed by a relevant law for conducting an audit by a government office, a bank, or a non-bank financial institution falls within the period specified in section 3 of this Act, compliance with the deadline or date prescribed by that law is suspended upon the commencement of this Act.

(c) If what is suspended under subsection (a) of this section is a deadline prescribed by a relevant law for the submission of a financial statement or annual report, for the purpose of that subsection, the counting of that period shall be deemed to have been suspended from 12 March 2020 until the date on which the state of public health emergency is terminated. The counting of that period shall recommence from the date on which the state of public health emergency is terminated.

(d) If what is suspended under subsection (a) of this section is a date fixed for a particular action, the new date for that action shall be the date on which 30 (thirty) days have passed since the termination of the state of public health emergency.

(e) If a deadline or date for an audit is deferred under subsection (b) of this section, the new date for conducting that action shall be the date on which 90 (ninety) days have passed since the termination of the state of public health emergency.

(f) Notwithstanding subsection (e) of this section, if the work of an audit that needs to be completed in relation to a specific institution cannot be completed within the period specified in subsection (e), the period may be extended with the permission of the Public Accounts Committee of the People's Majlis, after submitting the reasons to the committee.

(g) The extension of time as referred to in subsection (f) of this section shall be for a maximum period of 60 (sixty) days.

Suspension of Acts Required to be Done Within a Specific Period

43.

(a) Unless otherwise specified in this Act, where a law sets a deadline or a date for a particular action, and the deadline or date prescribed in that law falls within the period specified in section 3 of this Act, compliance with the deadline or date prescribed by that law for that action is suspended upon the commencement of this Act.

(b) The matters for which the date or deadline for doing a particular act is deferred under subsection (a) of this section do not include the following:

(1) The time limits prescribed in the relevant law for bringing persons arrested on suspicion of a crime before a judge;

(2) The time limits that must be given under the relevant law for providing legal assistance of a lawyer to persons accused of a crime;

(3) Cases that must be submitted to court after taking children in need of care and protection into state custody;

(4) The deadlines prescribed by law for the payment of taxes, rent, and fees due to the State.

(c) Notwithstanding subsection (b)(4) of this section, this Act does not prevent the State from exercising its discretion to grant a concession that must be given under section 31 of this Act or under another law in the payment of a tax, rent, or fee due to the State.

(d) If a deadline for a particular action is suspended under subsection (a) of this section, the counting of that period shall recommence from the date on which the state of public health emergency is terminated.

(e) If a date for a particular action is suspended under subsection (a) of this section, the new date for that action shall be the date on which 30 (thirty) days have passed since the termination of the state of public health emergency.

(f) Notwithstanding subsections (d) and (e) of this section, if the authority enforcing the relevant law finds that an obligation deferred under subsection (a) cannot be fulfilled within the period specified in those two subsections, that authority has the discretion to extend the period, provided that the extension does not exceed 60 (sixty) days.

Chapter Nine

Special Measures for Law Enforcement

Action against persons who violate the orders of the Director General of Public Health

44.

(a) For as long as the state of public health emergency declared in connection with COVID-19 continues, the Director General of Public Health shall have the discretion to take the following measures against persons who violate the orders issued by the Director General of Public Health:

(1) If the person who violates an order issued by the Director General of Public Health under Law No. 7/2012 (Public Health Protection Act) is a private individual, to impose a fine of between MVR 1,000 (one thousand) and MVR 10,000 (ten thousand), depending on the severity of the matter;

(2) If the person who violates an order issued by the Director General of Public Health under the Public Health Protection Act is a legal person, to impose a fine of between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand), depending on the severity of the matter.

(b) The Director General of Public Health may order the police to enforce the measures specified in subsection (a) of this section, or any other measure specified in the Public Health Protection Act.

Seeking Police Assistance in Enforcing Orders of the Director General of Public Health

45.

(a) In acting to enforce the orders issued by the Director General of Public Health under section 44(b) of this Act, the police shall have the following powers:

(1) Ordering persons who violate the order to comply with it;

(2) Dispersing any gathering that violates the order;

(3) Immediately fining persons who violate the order as specified in section 44(a) of this Act;

(4) Arresting persons who fail to comply with an order given under subsection (1) of this section.

(b) In taking measures under this section, the police shall touch, restrain, or arrest any person only in accordance with the procedures prescribed in Law No. 12/2016 (Criminal Procedure Code), Law No. 5/2008 (Police Act), and other relevant laws, and within the scope prescribed in those laws.

(c) The measures taken by the police under this section shall be regularly reported to the Director General of Public Health, and information on those measures shall be recorded and maintained.

Chapter Ten

Miscellaneous

Making Regulations

    Unless expressly stated otherwise in this Act, the regulations to be made under this Act shall be made and administered by the following government agencies:

(a) The Ministry of National Planning, Housing and Infrastructure, in matters relating to housing;

(b) The Ministry of Gender, Family and Social Services, in establishing the principles for providing state assistance to persons in need;

(c) The Ministry of Finance, in matters relating to taxes and public finance;

(d) The Audit Office, in matters relating to audits;

(e) The relevant tribunals and courts, in matters relating to the hearings of courts and tribunals;

(f) The Ministry of Economic Development, in matters that prejudice the rights of an employee.

Commencement of the Act

    This Act shall come into force on the day it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette.

Definitions

    Unless expressly stated otherwise in this Act, the following words and phrases used in this Act shall have the meanings given below to those words and phrases.

(a) "COVID-19" means the Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19), which is the disease caused by the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).

(b) "State of emergency declared in connection with COVID-19" means the state of public health emergency declared on 12 March 2020 under Section 33 of Law No. 7/2012 (Public Health Protection Act).

(c) "Any other state of emergency or disaster declared in the Maldives in connection with COVID-19" means a state of emergency declared under Article 253 of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives in connection with COVID-19 or a state of disaster declared under Section 7 of Law No. 28/2015 (Disaster Management Act).
