Public Finance Act of the State

Introduction and Title

1.
(a) This Act is to establish principles for the control and maintenance of state funds and property, and to determine financial principles and other related principles concerning state funds and property.
(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Public Finance Act."

Chapter 1
State Funds and Property

Disbursement and Expenditure of State Funds

2.
(a) No person shall act in a manner that incurs expenditure of state funds, creating a liability, except in the following circumstances:
(1) The funds required to be expended to meet the liability are available for expenditure in accordance with legal principles.
(2) The funds required to be expended to meet the liability are authorized for expenditure in accordance with the Public Finance Regulation.
(b) No person shall disburse state funds except in the following circumstances:
(1) State funds are legally available in the amount required for the expenditure.
(2) The funds required for the expenditure are authorized for expenditure in accordance with the Public Finance Regulation.

Prohibition of Disbursing State Funds Except for Authorized Loans

    State funds shall not be disbursed as a loan to any party except for a loan authorized by the President, or a loan authorized by the Minister from within a specific category for which the President has authorized the disbursement of loans, or a loan disbursed by a Council under Article 82 of Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act of the Maldives).

Disbursement of Funds as Loans

4.
(a) Unless otherwise specified in this Act or any other law, state funds shall be disbursed as loans only for state purposes, within the principles and standards specified in the Public Finance Regulation, and in accordance with the Public Finance Regulation.
(b) For the purposes of this Act, "state purposes" refers to purposes that include the following interests:
(1) There is a benefit to the entire society or a large part of society;
(2) It is a matter directly related to the responsibilities to be fulfilled by virtue of being a government;
(3) One of the main reasons for doing it is not considered to be the protection of the interests of a particular individual;
(4) It is a matter that facilitates the achievement of something within public health, public safety, public interest, peace and security, national progress, and national prosperity.
(c) The state shall disburse loans under a policy established on a publicly available, equitable basis. This policy must specify the circumstances under which a loan disbursed by the state may be forgiven.
(d) State funds shall be disbursed as a loan upon the President's authorization for the disbursement of such a loan. The document submitted to the President requesting authorization for the loan must include the reason for the loan, the principal amount of the loan, the interest rate, any other charges, and information on the method determined for the recovery of the loan.
(e) If a loan disbursed by the state is not being repaid regularly, the Minister shall take necessary measures regarding the matter.
(f) If state funds are disbursed as a loan to any party, or have been disbursed, the information and accounts of that loan shall be maintained by the Minister in accordance with the Public Finance Regulation.
(g) In the circumstances specified in Article 82 of Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act of the Maldives), a particular council may, after deducting expenditures from the income received for that year, disburse the remaining funds as a loan to another council by agreement.
(h) If funds disbursed as a loan by one council to another under subsection (g) of this Article are not repaid as agreed, the government is empowered to deduct the amount from the funds provided by the government to that party and disburse it to the other council.
(i) All information related to a loan provided by a council under subsection (g) of this Article, and details of the loan repayment, shall be regularly shared with the Ministry by the council that disbursed the loan, in accordance with the manner specified in the Public Finance Regulation.
(j) The procedures for sharing all information related to loans provided by councils under subsection (g) of this Article with the Ministry, as per subsection (i) of this Article, shall be specified in the regulation made under this Act.

Raising Funds on Credit by the State

5.
(a) Every proposal to raise funds on credit in the name of the state shall be submitted to the Minister in accordance with the Public Finance Regulation.
(b) If the Minister receives a proposal as described in subsection (a) of this Article, it is the responsibility of the Minister to carry out the necessary actions in accordance with the law regarding the raising of that debt.
(c) The state shall raise funds on credit only after studying the impact of raising such debt on the national economy and state finances, in a manner not exceeding the amount determined in the annual budget for that year, and as determined by the President upon submission by the Minister.
(d) Unless otherwise specified in this Act, if the state raises funds on credit, the principal amount borrowed, the interest payable thereon, and other costs incurred in raising the funds shall be paid from the Consolidated Revenue Fund, as determined and approved in the budget.
(e) Each time the state raises debt in accordance with subsection (c) of this Article, the Minister shall, in accordance with the Public Finance Regulation, send information related to that debt to the People's Majlis within 90 (ninety) days of raising the debt.
(f) When sending the information mentioned in subsection (e) of this Article to the People's Majlis, the purpose for which the debt was raised, the benefit to society, the principal amount borrowed, the interest payable thereon, and other costs incurred in raising the funds must be stated. A copy of the study report conducted in relation to raising the debt must also be sent to the People's Majlis.
(g) Debt shall be raised in the name of the state as specified in this Article, in a manner not exceeding the limit set for raising debt in the annual budget for that year.

Raising Funds on Credit by Councils

5-1.
(a) Councils shall raise funds on credit to implement a project included in the development plan of the island or city to which the council belongs, upon submission of a resolution passed by a majority of the members of that council to the Minister, and with the Minister's approval.
(b) The resolution passed by the council to raise funds on credit as per subsection (a) of this Article shall include the following information:
(1) The benefits to the development and economy of the island, city, or administrative division resulting from raising the debt;
(2) After studying the impact of raising the debt on the council's finances, details of the determined period, amount, interest on the debt, all expenses to be incurred for raising or obtaining the debt, the cash flow plan of the party requesting the debt, and a statement indicating the debt level;
(3) The reason for deciding to raise the debt, details of the project decided to be implemented using the debt, the benefits of the project, the feasibility of the project, and details of how the debt will be repaid;
(4) If a third party provides a guarantee for the debt, details of the guarantee provided by that party;
(5) The reason for deciding to raise the debt from a particular bank, financial institution, or financial entity;
(6) An assessment (creditor due diligence) conducted by a relevant authority to determine the financial capability of the lending party;
(7) If any security is given for the debt, details of that matter;
(8) A draft copy of the loan agreement and all documents related to the agreement.
(c) When a council submits a request to take a loan, the Ministry shall consider the following matters in granting permission to take the loan:
(1) The feasibility of the project;
(2) The benefit to the nation in addition to the island, city, or administrative division to which the council belongs, as a result of the project;
(3) The extent of the council's ability to repay the debt;
(4) The total debt level of the entire state; and
(5) The limit specified for councils to raise debt under Law No. 7/2013 (Fiscal Responsibility Act).
(d) After a council raises a debt as provided in this Article, all information and documents related to that debt shall be sent to the Minister and the Authority within the period specified in the regulation made under this Act.
(e) In raising funds on credit as provided in this Article, councils shall adhere to the standards specified in Law No. 7/2013 (Fiscal Responsibility Act) and the procedures for raising debt specified in the regulation made under this Act.
(f) The respective council shall be responsible for a debt raised by a council as provided in this Article. And the principal amount borrowed, the interest payable thereon, and other costs incurred in raising the funds shall be paid from the budget of that council, as determined and approved in the council's budget.

Providing Guarantees for Debt Raised by Councils, and Councils Providing Guarantees

5-2.
(a) If a bank or institution from which a council raises a debt under Article 5-1 of this Act requires a guarantee, such a guarantee may be given in accordance with the regulation made under this Act, after a resolution passed by a majority of the members of that council is submitted to the Minister and the Minister approves it.
(b) The circumstances in which councils may issue guarantees, the types of projects for which guarantees may be issued, the parties to whom guarantees may be issued, and the conditions and procedures for issuing guarantees shall be specified in the regulation made under this Act.

Financial Management of Private Businesses in which Councils have Shares

5-3.
(a) Councils shall make expenditures as capital or in any other form to Local Authority companies and private businesses in which councils have shares, under the principles established by the Ministry of Finance.
(b) The Minister is empowered to determine the procedures for conducting the procurement matters of Local Authority companies.

Providing Guarantees in the Name of the State

5-4.
(a) Every proposal requesting the provision of a guarantee in the name of the state shall be submitted to the Minister in accordance with the Public Finance Regulation.
(b) A guarantee shall be given in the name of the state only after studying the impact of giving such a guarantee on the national economy and state finances, in accordance with the established procedure for giving guarantees, and as determined by the President upon submission by the Minister.
(c) Each time the state issues a guarantee in accordance with subsection (b) of this Article, the Minister shall, in accordance with the Public Finance Regulation, send information related to that guarantee to the People's Majlis within 90 (ninety) days of issuing the guarantee.
(d) When sending the information specified in subsection (c) of this Article to the People's Majlis, the purpose for which the guarantee was issued, the guaranteed amount, and a copy of the study report conducted in relation to issuing the guarantee must also be sent to the People's Majlis.

Recording and Maintaining Information on Loans and Guarantees

    The Minister shall record and maintain accounts of funds raised on credit on behalf of the state, and of guarantees, indemnities, or undertakings given by the state, in accordance with the Public Finance Regulation.

Authorized Sale and Disposal of State Property and Leasing

7.
(a) State offices, other than councils, shall act in the sale of state property in accordance with the Public Finance Regulation upon submission to the Minister by the relevant state office, and with the permission of the President on the advice of the Minister.
(b) State property, other than property under the ownership of a council, shall be released, mortgaged, or disposed of in accordance with the manner determined by the President on the advice of the Minister for carrying out such actions, as per the Public Finance Regulation.
(c) Unless otherwise specified in a special law outlining the procedures for leasing state property and premises, the leasing of state property and premises shall be carried out in accordance with the Public Finance Regulation.

Authorized Sale and Disposal of Council Property

7-1.
(a) Council property shall be given, sold, leased, released, mortgaged, or disposed of in accordance with this Act and the regulation made under this Act, and as passed by that council.
(b) If a council decides to give, sell, lease, release, mortgage, or dispose of property as per subsection (a) of this Article, that information shall be shared with the Ministry in accordance with the manner specified in the regulation made under this Act.

Seeking Funds After the End of the Financial Year

    If a bill for funds payable for goods or services procured during a financial year is submitted to the Minister within 30 non-government-holiday days following the end of that financial year, the Minister may authorize the payment of the funds in that bill from the budget approved for the completed financial year or from the Advance Fund, as provided in Article 23(a) of this Act.

Writing Off State Funds as Irrecoverable

    A shortfall, loss, or deficiency in state funds, or state funds deemed irrecoverable, or state property that is lost, destroyed, damaged, or unusable may be written off as irrecoverable with the permission of the President, and after determining such circumstances and the procedure to be followed in the Public Finance Regulation, and after including it in the relevant accounts as specified in that regulation.

Granting Concessions or Benefits in Transactions Conducted by the State and Waiving Funds Due to the State

9-1.
(a) State offices, excluding councils, shall grant any concession or benefit, directly or indirectly, in connection with a transaction conducted in the name of the state, or agree to waive any funds due to the state, only in one of the circumstances specified in subsection (c) of this Article, upon submission to the Minister by the relevant state office in accordance with the Public Finance Regulation, and after the President gives permission for it on the advice of the Minister.
(b) Councils shall grant any concession or benefit, directly or indirectly, in connection with a transaction conducted by them, or waive any funds due to the council, only in one of the circumstances specified in subsection (c) of this Article, upon submission of the matter to the council by the council's responsible financial officer, and as passed by that council to grant such a concession or benefit in accordance with the Public Finance Regulation.
(c) A concession or benefit as specified in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article shall be granted to any person or party, or agreed to be granted, or any due funds shall be waived, in cases of loss suffered by or difficult circumstances faced by that person or party, where granting such a concession or benefit is deemed by the government or council to be a matter of social interest, or a matter of justice, or a matter involving the interest of a reasonable proportion of the people of that area.
(d) If a concession or benefit or any due funds are waived as specified in subsections (a) and (b) of this Article, the details of those transactions shall be recorded and maintained by the relevant state office in accordance with the Public Finance Regulation.
(e) All decisions made under subsection (b) of this Article shall be submitted to the Ministry within 7 (seven) official days of the decision being made.

Special Assistance

10.
(a) Financial assistance may be provided as special assistance from state funds to a person or party, in a manner that is not a payment required under a legal liability or a payment to fulfill a legal obligation.
(b) As provided in subsection (a) of this Article, special assistance from state funds may be given to a person or party in case of a loss suffered by or difficult circumstances faced by that person or party, where providing some assistance from the state is deemed by the government to be a matter of social interest or a matter of justice. Otherwise, such assistance shall be given only in cases where rescuing a person or party from a financial difficulty they are facing is a matter involving the interest of a reasonable proportion of the society, and in addition, rescuing that person or party in that situation is deemed by the government to be the most just and fair course of action.
(c) Except for assistance provided by councils, assistance from state funds as special assistance under subsections (a) and (b) of this Article may be given to a person or party by the Minister upon an order of the President or with the permission of the President, in accordance with the Public Finance Regulation.
(d) Councils may provide assistance as special assistance to any party in accordance with the procedures established in the Public Finance Regulation, to achieve a purpose specified in subsection (b) of this Article, and as passed by that council to provide assistance to that person or party.
(e) If financial assistance is given from state funds as special assistance to a person or party as specified in subsections (a) and (d) of this Article, the details of those transactions shall be recorded and maintained by the relevant state office in accordance with the Public Finance Regulation.
(f) All decisions made under this Article shall be publicly published within 7 (seven) days of the decision being made.

Assistance Provided by Councils to Private Associations and Organizations

10-1.
(a) Under Article 73 of Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act of the Maldives), councils may provide assistance from state funds to private associations and organizations to implement projects included in the development plan of the administrative division, island, or city.
(b) A council shall provide assistance to any party under subsection (a) of this Article as passed by a majority of that council to provide assistance to that party, and in a manner that does not conflict with the policies and standards established by the government and the procedures in the regulation made under this Act.

Chapter 2
Management of State Funds and Government Banking Arrangements

Management of State Funds

    The Minister may formulate regulations and procedures for state offices to follow for the proper and sound management of state funds. In this regard, regulations and procedures for establishing and operating a Treasury Single Account system may also be formulated to achieve the following objectives:
    (a) To manage the government's cash flow in a proper and sound manner; and
    (b) To manage the cash balances of government bank accounts in a proper and sound manner.

Government Banking Arrangements

12.
(a) State funds shall be deposited and held in public bank accounts opened through the Treasury Single Account system. These accounts may be opened with the Maldives Monetary Authority and with banks operating in the Maldives.
(b) The accounts specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be operated by persons designated by the Minister.
(c) Bank accounts opened by councils under Article 100 of Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act of the Maldives) shall be considered as part of the public bank accounts.
(d) The council or state office opening an account under Article 100 of Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act of the Maldives) and accounts opened by state offices shall give permission to the bank where the account is held to provide information about the account to the Minister. And, if the Minister requests information on such accounts, that bank shall provide that information to the Minister.
(e) The provisions of subsection (d) of this Article shall apply to accounts opened in banks operating in the Maldives by councils, state offices, government departments, and government agencies as of the date of commencement of the 6th Amendment to Law No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act).
(f) The public bank account and other accounts opened by the government with the Maldives Monetary Authority, and accounts opened in banks operating in the Maldives by councils, state offices, government departments, and government agencies as of the date of commencement of the 6th Amendment to Law No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act) shall be considered as part of the public bank accounts specified in subsection (a) of this Article.

Depositing Funds into the Public Bank Account

    Except for funds disbursed as an advance from a public fund, all funds procured and all funds received by that office shall be deposited in the Public Bank Account. If the funds were procured or received on an island where there is no center of the Maldives Monetary Authority, the funds shall be deposited in a bank where the Authority has an account. A state office operating on an island where there is no such bank shall deal with such funds in accordance with Article 11 of this Act.

Accounting for and Detailing Funds Deposited into the Public Bank Account

    Except for the principal amount of state funds invested as per Article 16(a) of this Act, the manner of accounting for all funds deposited into the Public Bank Account shall be determined in the Public Finance Regulation. And the funds shall be accounted for and their details included in the accounts of the Public Fund in accordance with the Public Finance Regulation.

Disbursement of Funds from the Public Bank Account

15.
(a) Funds shall not be withdrawn from the Public Bank Account except in the following circumstances:
(1) To invest funds not immediately required, in accordance with Article 16 of this Act, as permitted by this Act; or
(2) In accordance with the written authorization for the expenditure of funds from the Consolidated Revenue Fund under Article 20 of this Act; or
(3) In accordance with the written authorization for the expenditure of funds from the Loans and Capital Works Fund under Article 22 of this Act; or
(4) From the Advance Fund, as provided in Article 23(a) of this Act; or
(5) From a Trust Fund in accordance with the trust statement of a trust account.
(b) Except for funds withdrawn as per Article 16(a) of this Act, the manner of accounting for all funds withdrawn from the Public Bank Account shall be determined in the Public Finance Regulation. And the funds shall be accounted for and their details included in the accounts of the Public Fund in accordance with the Public Finance Regulation.

Investment of Funds Not Immediately Required from the Public Bank Account

16.
(a) The Minister may withdraw and invest funds from the Public Bank Account that are not immediately required, in one of the following ways and in accordance with international standards of financial security:
(1) In securities issued or guaranteed by a foreign government or an international financial institution.
(2) To be held as a deposit in an account of a bank acceptable to the Minister.
(b) The accounting for state funds invested as per subsection (a) of this Article shall be determined in the Public Finance Regulation. And the accounts of those funds shall be maintained by the Minister in accordance with that regulation.
(c) Any interest received from any investment made as specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall also be deposited into the Public Bank Account and dealt with as specified in Article 30 of this Act.
(d) Funds received as income by Local Councils are exempted from this Article.

Authorization of Expenditure

17.
(a) Unless otherwise specified in this Act, funds in the Consolidated Revenue Fund or the Loans and Capital Works Fund within the Public Bank Account shall be expended under a written authorization issued and signed by the Minister.
(b) The authorization specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be issued for an expenditure included in the approved budget.
(c) The authorization specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be issued at the beginning of each financial year. And in this manner, one authorization shall be issued per year.
(d) Under the authorization specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the total expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund and the Loans and Capital Works Fund within a financial year shall not exceed the total expenditure approved for that fund in the budget for that financial year by more than 5% (five percent).
(e) Funds within the Consolidated Revenue Fund, the Loans and Capital Works Fund, and the Trust Fund may be transferred from one head to another in a manner not exceeding the total expenditure approved for that fund in the budget for that financial year, and in accordance with the principles specified in the Public Finance Regulation. The circumstances in which funds allocated for various purposes may be authorized for expenditure on another purpose, the amounts, and the information to be submitted and the procedures related to obtaining the necessary permission for such changes shall be specified in the Public Finance Regulation.
(f) An authorization as specified in subsection (a) of this Article, issued in connection with an approved budget, shall not be used to make an expenditure after the expiry of the budget period, except as specified in Article 8 of this Act.
(g) Except in circumstances where the Minister has determined to make expenditures in a particular manner for the purpose of reducing state expenditure, funds included in the budget of councils from the Consolidated Revenue Fund may be expended as determined in the budget of that council without obtaining further authorization from the Minister.

Chapter 3
Public Funds

Accounts of Public Funds

18.
(a) The accounts of the following public funds shall be determined in the Public Finance Regulation and maintained by the Minister in accordance with that regulation:
(1) Consolidated Revenue Fund;
(2) Loans and Capital Works Fund;
(3) Advance Fund;
(4) Trust Fund; and
(5) Sovereign Development Fund.
(b) The total of the funds in the Public Funds must be equal to the total of the funds in the Public Bank Account and the funds invested under Article 16 of this Act.

Depositing Funds into the Consolidated Revenue Fund

    Unless otherwise specified in another law, all state funds, except for the following, shall be deposited into the Consolidated Revenue Fund:
    (a) State funds procured by, or received by, or held in a state office operating on an island where there is no center of the Maldives Monetary Authority or a bank with an account of the Authority, or outside the Maldives;
    (b) State funds that are to be deposited into the Loans and Capital Works Fund as specified in Article 21 of this Act;
    (c) State funds that are to be deposited into the Advance Fund as specified in Article 24 of this Act;
    (d) State funds that are to be deposited into the accounts included in the Trust Fund as specified in Article 27(a) of this Act;
    (e) State funds that are to be deposited into the Interest Suspense Account as specified in Article 30 of this Act.

Disbursement of Funds from the Consolidated Revenue Fund

20.
(a) State funds shall not be disbursed from the Consolidated Revenue Fund except in the following circumstances:
(1) In accordance with the budget approved by the People's Majlis for that year; or
(2) In accordance with a law authorizing the disbursement of funds from the Consolidated Revenue Fund; or
(3) To give a refund from state funds in accordance with the Public Finance Regulation.
(4) As specified in Article 17(b) of this Act.
(b) State funds shall not be disbursed from the Consolidated Revenue Fund except after obtaining a written authorization for expenditure.
(c) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of this Article, funds included in a council's budget from the funds in the Consolidated Revenue Fund may be expended as decided by the council without the written authorization for expenditure specified in subsection (b) of this Article, and this Article shall not be an obstacle to it.

Depositing Funds into the Loans and Capital Works Fund

    The following state funds shall be deposited into the Loans and Capital Works Fund:
    (a) Funds disbursed from the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the Loans and Capital Works Fund, in accordance with the Public Finance Regulation, to be disbursed as loans by the state for state purposes as specified in Article 4(b) of this Act, and for capital expenditures.
    (b) Funds paid towards the principal of a loan disbursed from the Loans and Capital Works Fund.
    (c) Funds received from the sale of state property.
    (d) Funds given as aid without any conditions for capital expenditure, whether by an international organization or any other party.
    (e) Loan funds disbursed to the state by various parties for capital expenditure or any other purpose, and funds raised by the state on credit.

Disbursement of Funds from the Loans and Capital Works Fund

22.
(a) State funds shall not be disbursed from the Loans and Capital Works Fund except when one of the following circumstances arises:
(1) In accordance with the budget approved by the People's Majlis for that year; or
(2) As specified in Article 17(b) of this Act.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, state funds shall not be expended from the Loans and Capital Works Fund except in accordance with a written authorization for expenditure as specified in Article 17 of this Act.

Disbursement of Funds from the Advance Fund

23.
(a) Funds from the Advance Fund may be disbursed for the following purposes:
(1) To disburse funds as an advance for temporary payments for general government services and capital expenditures, and for the expenditures of state offices operating on an island where there is no center of the Maldives Monetary Authority or a bank with an account of the Authority, or outside the Maldives;
(2) To disburse funds in a situation where state funds need to be disbursed for an unforeseen or suddenly arising need; and
(3) To disburse funds in a situation where funds cannot be disbursed from any other public fund as permitted by law.
(b) If any funds have been disbursed from the Advance Fund as per subsection (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this Article, the Minister shall, in order to repay those funds to that fund, make a provision in the budget for the following financial year, or for an addition to the current budget, to withdraw funds from the Consolidated Revenue Fund, or the Loans and Capital Works Fund, or both funds.
(c) Funds shall not be disbursed from the Advance Fund for a purpose specified in subsection (a) of this Article except with written permission from the Minister and in accordance with that written document.

Depositing Funds into the Advance Fund

    The following state funds shall be deposited into the Advance Fund:
    (a) Funds repaid to the Advance Fund from the funds disbursed as an advance from the Advance Fund as per Article 23(a)(1) of this Act;
    (b) Funds approved and allocated in the budget as per Article 23(b) of this Act to be repaid to the Advance Fund in connection with funds disbursed from the Advance Fund as per Article 23(a)(2) and (a)(3) of this Act.

Composition of the Trust Fund

25.
(a) The Trust Fund shall be composed of the Interest Suspense Account specified in Article 30 of this Act, and if any trust account is established as part of the Trust Fund by any other law, that trust account, and the trust accounts specified in subsection (b) of this Article.
(b) Trust accounts established from time to time for the following purposes shall also be included in the Trust Fund:
(1) To maintain state funds allocated and approved in the budget for expenditure on specific government purposes;
(2) For the state to hold funds on behalf of another party that is not a state office;
(3) To temporarily hold as state funds, funds received as gifts or grants for a specific state purpose, and funds received by the state under specific conditions;
(4) To temporarily hold funds received by the state until a specific purpose for them is known;
(5) All state funds allocated and approved in the budget for a specific special purpose of a trust account;
(6) All state funds received for a special purpose of a trust account.
(c) A trust account shall not be established except with the written permission of the Minister and for a purpose specified in subsection (b) of this Article.

Trust Statements of Trust Accounts

26.
(a) If a trust account is established under this Act or any other law, there shall be a trust statement related to that account.
(b) In this Act, "Trust Statement" refers to the primary official document related to an established trust account, prepared and signed by the Minister, containing the name and purpose of the trust account, the type and amount of funds deposited into it, the authorized expenditures from the account, the party responsible for managing the account, and all other details to be maintained regarding the account as per the Public Finance Regulation.
(c) There shall be a trust statement prepared for the Interest Suspense Account in accordance with Article 30 of this Act.
(d) All trust statements shall be prepared in accordance with the Public Finance Regulation. And the Minister is empowered to amend the trust statement in accordance with the Public Finance Regulation.

Depositing Funds into Trust Accounts

    State funds shall not be deposited into a trust account except in accordance with the trust statement of the trust account.

Disbursement of Funds from a Trust Account

28.
(a) State funds shall not be disbursed from a trust account except in accordance with the trust statement of that trust account. And funds shall not be withdrawn from a trust account in excess of the funds available in that account.
(b) Funds shall not be disbursed from a trust account except in one of the following ways:
(1) If the account was opened under another law, in accordance with that law and the trust statement of that account;
(2) In the case of the Interest Suspense Account, in accordance with Article 30 of this Act and the trust statement of that account;
(3) In the case of another trust account, in accordance with the trust statement of that account.

Closing of Trust Accounts

29.
(a) When the purpose of a trust account established for the purpose specified in Article 25(b) of this Act is fulfilled, or if the Minister finds that the purpose for which the account was created cannot be fulfilled, the Minister is empowered to order the closure of that account.
(b) If the Minister orders the closure of a trust account, after paying any outstanding payments from that account, the remaining state funds in the account shall be dealt with in the manner specified in the trust statement of that account for its closure, if such a manner is specified. If no manner is specified in the trust statement, the funds shall be deposited into the Consolidated Revenue Fund.

Interest Suspense Account

30.
(a) There shall be an account named "Interest Suspense Account" as part of the Trust Fund.
(b) All interest funds received on investments made as per Article 16 of this Act shall be deposited into the Interest Suspense Account.
(c) Unless otherwise specified in another law, state funds in the Interest Suspense Account shall be withdrawn from that account and deposited into a Public Fund, or into another trust account or accounts in accordance with the trust statement of the Interest Suspense Account.

Sovereign Development Fund

30-1.
(a) For the purpose of sustainably investing state funds, servicing state debt, and increasing state revenue, a custodian account shall be established and maintained at the Maldives Monetary Authority as a Sovereign Development Fund in the manner specified in this Article.
(b) The Sovereign Development Fund is a fund established separately from the Public Bank Account specified in Article 12(a) of this Act.
(c) The Sovereign Development Fund established prior to the commencement of the 7th Amendment to Law No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act) shall be considered as the Sovereign Development Fund specified in subsection (a) of this Article.
(d) The funds to be deposited into the Sovereign Development Fund, and the policy for investment and expenditure from that fund, shall be determined by the President on the advice of the Minister.
(e) There shall be an Investment Committee consisting of 5 (five) members appointed by the President on the advice of the Minister to make investments from that fund under the policy specified in subsection (d) of this Article.
(f) The composition of the Investment Committee appointed under subsection (e) of this Article, its meetings, administrative management, and the procedures for making its decisions shall be specified in the Public Finance Regulation.
(g) The accounts of the funds of the Sovereign Development Fund shall be maintained and audited in the manner determined by the Public Finance Regulation.
(h) The Sovereign Development Fund shall be managed by the Ministry. And all procedures related to the management of the fund shall be specified in the Public Finance Regulation.

Chapter 4
Budget Formulation and Submission

Formulation and Submission of Budget to the Minister

    Every state office shall formulate a projected budget for the year, including its estimated revenue and its estimated recurrent and capital expenditure, and send that budget to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury in accordance with the Public Finance Regulation, and on or before the date specified in the Public Finance Regulation. The matters specified in this Article shall be carried out by the responsible officer appointed under this Act in each of those offices.

Annual State Budget

32.
(a) The annual state budget formulated for each financial year for submission to the People's Majlis shall be prepared by the Minister and submitted to the People's Majlis at least 2 months before the beginning of the financial year for which the budget is formulated.
(b) When submitting the budget as per subsection (a) of this Article, the estimated expenditure of the state for the financial year for which the budget is formulated, and the account of the estimated revenue of the state, and the account of the expenditure of the state and the revenue received by the state in the past financial year, shall be separately highlighted and stated under specific headings in that budget.
(c) When submitting the annual state budget as per subsection (a) of this Article, the proposal for capital expenditure shall be from the Loans and Capital Works Fund. And the proposal for recurrent expenditure shall be from the Consolidated Revenue Fund.
(d) A summary of the estimated revenue, and the estimated recurrent and capital expenditure for each state office, shall be included in the annual state budget. And the details of the program budget of the state offices shall be included in the annual state budget.
(e) If a request is made to the People's Majlis to approve additional funds for the budget or to approve a supplementary budget, that proposal shall be prepared in the manner specified in this Article for budget preparation, and submitted to the People's Majlis 1 month before the date the funds or budget are required.
(f) When submitting the annual state budget to the People's Majlis, the manner in which the state will finance the deficit shall be stated.

Transfer of Budgeted Funds upon Transfer of Work

    If funds have been allocated for a specific service in an approved budget, or as special capital expenditure in relation to a state office, and the responsibility for that work or service is transferred to another state office, the unspent funds in the budget may, with the permission of the Minister, be transferred to the office newly entrusted with the work or the new responsibility, and that expenditure may be made by that office.

Allocation of Funds in the Budget for Expenditure

34.
(a) If state funds from a budget approved for a particular financial year have not been expended within that financial year, those funds shall not be expended after the end of that financial year, except as specified in Article 8 of this Act.

Chapter 5
Financial Statements

Preparation and Submission of Financial Report to the Auditor General

35.
(a) The responsible officer appointed under this Act in every state office shall, within 3 (three) months of the end of each financial year, submit a report containing the following information to the Auditor General:
(1) The account of the estimated revenue and expenditure for that office in the budget approved by the People's Majlis for the completed financial year;
(2) The account of the revenue received and expenditure incurred by that office during the completed financial year;
(3) A report of the financial transactions conducted by that office during the completed financial year.
(b) The report specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be prepared in the manner determined by the Public Finance Regulation.
(c) The Minister shall, within 1 (one) month of the end of the financial year, send the information under the Minister's purview that is required by those offices to prepare the report specified in subsection (a) of this Article.
(d) If a state office is abolished, the responsible officer appointed under this Act who was in that office at the time of its abolition shall prepare a report as specified in this Article for the period that has passed in that year up to the date the office was abolished, and submit it to the Auditor General within 2 (two) months of the abolition of that office.
(e) A report containing complete information on how funds were expended for major special activities held or conducted at the national level shall be sent to the Office of the Auditor General by the office that conducted the activity within 45 (forty-five) days of the conclusion of the activity.
(f) The accounts mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be prepared and submitted to the Office of the Auditor General in accordance with this Act.

Auditing of the Annual Report and Submission of the Report

36.
(a) The Auditor General shall audit the annual report specified in Article 35 of this Act within 2 months of receiving it from the office mentioned in that article. And after auditing the report, the report written by the Auditor General shall be sent to the responsible officer appointed under this Act in that office.
(b) If the Auditor General does not receive a report that should be received as per Article 35 of this Act, the Auditor General shall, within 14 days, inform the People's Majlis and the President of this in writing.

Submission of the Audit Report and Annual Report to the President

    Within 1 month of the responsible officer appointed under this Act in every state office receiving the Auditor General's report as per Article 36(a) of this Act, he shall send a copy of the Auditor General's report and the report prepared as per Article 35 of this Act to the President and the Speaker of the People's Majlis.

Annual Accounts of the State

38.
(a) The Accountant General shall prepare the annual accounts of the state for that year in the manner determined by the Public Finance Regulation and submit them to the Minister within 3 (three) months of the end of each financial year.
(b) The annual accounts of the state specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall include the following parts:
(1) The account of the estimated revenue and expenditure for each public fund in the budget approved by the People's Majlis for a financial year; and
(2) The account of the revenue received and expenditure incurred by each public fund during that financial year; and
(3) A statement prepared on the assets and liabilities of the state, and contingent liabilities, at the end of that financial year.
(c) The Minister shall submit the annual accounts of the state to the Auditor General within 14 days of receiving them as per subsection (a) of this Article.
(d) If the Auditor General does not receive the annual accounts of the state from the Minister within 3 months and 14 days of the end of a financial year as per subsection (c) of this Article, the Auditor General shall inform the President of this in writing within 14 days.

Submission of the Auditor General's Report on the Annual Accounts

    The Auditor General shall submit his report to the Minister within 2 months of receiving the annual accounts of the state from the Minister as per Article 38(c) of this Act.

Submission of the Annual Accounts and Audit Report to the President

    The Minister shall submit the report and the annual accounts of the state prepared as per Article 38 of this Act to the President within 14 days of receiving the Auditor General's report as per Article 39 of this Act. And the report and accounts shall also be sent to the People's Majlis within 14 days from the date the report and accounts are submitted to the President.

Inspection of Accounts

    The financial documents and cash accounts of a state office may be inspected by the Minister or a person appointed by the Minister for that purpose whenever necessary.

Chapter 6
Administrative Matters

Minister's Responsibility

    The following are matters for which the Minister shall be responsible:
    (a) The implementation of this Act;
    (b) The control and maintenance of the Public Bank Account, Public Funds, and the financial affairs of the state; and
    (c) Taking the necessary steps to regularly submit complete and true accounts of the Public Bank Account, Public Funds, and the financial affairs of the state to the Auditor General and the People's Majlis.

Delegation of Minister's Responsibility

43.
(a) The Minister may delegate to the Accountant General such matters specified as the Minister's powers and duties in this Act as the Minister wishes to delegate at that time. However, the Accountant General cannot delegate to another person the powers and duties delegated to him by the Minister.
(b) Even if the Minister delegates his powers and duties to the Accountant General as per subsection (a) of this Article, the Minister shall not be absolved of the responsibility he must bear.
(c) The Minister shall delegate the powers and duties to the Accountant General under subsection (a) of this Article by a written document signed by the Minister.

Appointment of the Accountant General and His Responsibilities

44.
(a) There shall be an Accountant General in the Ministry to maintain and manage the system of state funds, accounts, and accounting documents.
(b) A person shall be appointed to the post of Accountant General by the President on the advice of the Minister.
(c) A person who meets the following conditions shall be appointed to the post of Accountant General:
(1) Be a Maldivian citizen;
(2) Have obtained a Master's degree or an equivalent qualification in a field relevant to the position from an institution recognized by the government, and have at least 5 (five) years of work experience in the field of public finance;
(3) Not be a person convicted by a court of any offense of corruption or dishonesty, theft, or fraud or any similar offense.
(d) The responsibilities of the Accountant General are set out below:
(1) To maintain and manage the system of state funds, accounts, and accounting documents in the manner prescribed in this Act and the Public Finance Regulation;
(2) To ensure that state funds are received, safely maintained, expended, or invested in accordance with this Act and the Public Finance Regulation;
(3) To ensure that state property is purchased, safely maintained, used, sold, disposed of, or released in accordance with this Act and the Public Finance Regulation;
(4) In addition to the matters specified from paragraphs (1) to (3) of this subsection, to perform other responsibilities prescribed under the Public Finance Regulation.
(e) If the Accountant General wishes to resign from his post, he shall submit a written statement to the President, and upon receipt of the letter by the President, the Accountant General shall be deemed to have resigned from that post.
(f) If the President finds that the Accountant General is unable to perform his duties and responsibilities, the Accountant General may be removed from his post on the advice of the Minister.

State's Internal Audit System

44-1.
(a) The Minister shall establish a state internal audit system to coordinate the financial transactions of state ministries, offices, departments, institutions, and councils, and to verify whether they are being managed in accordance with laws, regulations, and procedures, and whether their work is being carried out with adequate speed and efficiency, and economically, so as to obtain a benefit commensurate with the money spent.
(b) To oversee and coordinate the work of the state internal audit system specified in subsection (a) of this Article, there shall be a committee of 7 (seven) members called the State Internal Audit Committee, on the advice of the Minister. Members shall be appointed to this committee by the President on the advice of the Minister.
(c) The term of the Audit Committee specified in subsection (b) of this Article is 3 (three) years.
(d) The State Internal Audit Committee established under subsection (b) of this Article shall be accountable to the Minister.
(e) The powers and responsibilities of the State Internal Audit Committee specified in subsection (b) of this Article are as follows:
(1) To order the establishment of an audit system in the responsible state offices, to oversee and coordinate how that system functions, to create relevant procedures and guidelines, and to carry out all matters related to the state's internal audit system;
(2) To obtain information related to the work of the State Internal Audit Committee from state offices and other state institutions to ensure compliance with this Act and regulations, and to summon employees of those places to the committee to obtain information when necessary;
(3) To review the administrative risks and internal controls of responsible state offices and other state institutions, and to advise the Minister on matters that need to be rectified;
(4) To coordinate the work of the state's internal audit, to study internal audit reports, and to advise the Minister on those reports;
(5) To formulate the necessary procedures to ensure the independence of the employees of the internal audit system of the responsible state offices.

Appointment of the Chief Internal Auditor

44-2.
(a) The Chief Internal Auditor is the most senior official responsible for planning and managing all matters of the internal audit system specified in Article 44-1 of this Act.
(b) A person shall be appointed to the post of Chief Internal Auditor by the President on the advice of the Minister.
(c) A person who meets the following conditions shall be appointed to the post of Chief Internal Auditor:
(1) Be a Maldivian citizen;
(2) Have at least 5 (five) years of experience in internal or external auditing;
(3) Be a person with the education and ability to perform the responsibilities of the post of Chief Internal Auditor, and be a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of the Maldives;
(4) Not be a person convicted by a court of an offense of corruption or dishonesty or theft or fraud or a similar offense related to money and financial transactions.
(d) If the Chief Internal Auditor wishes to resign from his post, he shall submit a written statement to the President, and upon receipt of the letter by the President, the Chief Internal Auditor shall be deemed to have resigned from that post.
(e) If the President finds that the Chief Internal Auditor is unable to perform his duties and responsibilities, the Chief Internal Auditor may be removed from his post on the advice of the Minister.

Responsibilities of the Chief Internal Auditor

44-3. The responsibilities of the Chief Internal Auditor are set out below:
(a) To design, operate, and develop the state's internal audit system in a manner that is most beneficial to the state, without conflicting with international standards, this Act, and the Public Finance Regulation;
(b) To determine, on the advice of the Minister, the offices in which internal audit units will be established, taking into account the budget of the office and the projects it runs; the employees working in the internal audit units thus established shall be answerable to the Chief Internal Auditor regarding their job responsibilities.
(c) To plan and conduct all necessary training for the state's internal audit system, and to familiarize the employees of this system with relevant skills;
(d) To formulate short-term and long-term audit plans, and after their approval by the State Internal Audit Committee, to plan and manage all necessary actions to implement those plans.

Responsible State Office

45.
(a) For the purposes of this Act, the following shall be considered responsible state offices:
(1) The President's Office, Ministries, and the Attorney General's Office;
(2) Offices designated by the President to have separate financial management and financial responsibility;
(3) Local Councils.
(b) The financial affairs and financial transactions of every state office not considered a responsible state office shall be under the supervision of a responsible state office related to that office, as provided in the Public Finance Regulation.
(c) The responsible state office responsible for the financial matters and financial transactions of a state office specified in the Public Finance Regulation, as per that regulation, shall be responsible for those matters for the purposes of this Act.

Appointment of the Responsible Officer and His Responsibilities

46.
(a) For the purposes of this Act, there shall be a responsible officer in every responsible state office who is in charge of the responsibility of managing the matters to be conducted under this Act.
(b) The responsibilities of the responsible officer appointed under this Act shall be laid down in the Public Finance Regulation.

Chapter 7
State Procurement System

State Procurement System

46-1.
(a) A state procurement policy shall be established to carry out procurement matters in a transparent and competitive environment with integrity, for the purchase of goods, acquisition of services, and execution of various works required by state institutions.
(b) The state procurement policy shall be determined by the Minister on the advice of the Procurement Policy Board specified in Article 46-2 of this Act.
(c) Procurement procedures and principles related to the purchase of goods, acquisition of services, and execution of various works required by state institutions, in a transparent and competitive environment with integrity, shall be determined in the Public Finance Regulation in accordance with the policies established under subsection (a) of this Article.

State Procurement Policy Board

46-2.
(a) There shall be a State Procurement Policy Board consisting of 7 (seven) members to strengthen the state procurement system and to advise the Minister in formulating procurement-related policies.
(b) The members appointed to the board specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be persons who have obtained higher education in a professional field such as finance planning, engineering, information technology, law, or commerce, and have at least 3 (three) years of experience in such a field.
(c) The President shall appoint and remove members to the board specified in subsection (a) of this Article.
(d) The Ministry shall be responsible for the administrative matters of the meetings of the State Procurement Policy Board.
(e) The term of the members of the State Procurement Policy Board, matters related to the resignation and removal of members, the procedures for operating the board, and all procedures related to its meetings and decision-making shall be specified in the Public Finance Regulation.

Procurement Appeal Board

46-3.
(a) If a bidder believes that the law and the Public Finance Regulation have been violated in the conduct of tenders opened under the state procurement system, there shall be a board of 7 (seven) members called the Procurement Appeal Board, on the advice of the Minister, to review such matters. Members shall be appointed to this board by the President on the advice of the Minister.
(b) The members appointed to the State Procurement Appeal Board specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be persons who have obtained higher education in a professional field such as finance planning, engineering, information technology, law, or commerce, and have at least 5 (five) years of experience in such a field.
(c) Matters that may be submitted to the Procurement Appeal Board specified in subsection (a) of this Article are those that have occurred from the start of the bidding process up to the awarding of the bid and the signing of an agreement.
(d) The term of the members of the Procurement Appeal Board, matters related to the resignation and removal of members, the procedures for operating the board, and all procedures related to its meetings and decision-making shall be specified in the Public Finance Regulation.

Suspension of Bidders, Suppliers, and Contractors

46-4.
(a) The procedure for suspending a bidder or contractor from state tenders in cases of acting contrary to the provisions of this Act in submitting a bid, committing fraud and deceit in the bid, working together with a relevant employee to obtain an unfair advantage (collusive), using force, intimidation (coercive), obstructing the implementation of the law, and influencing the bid price, shall be determined in the Public Finance Regulation.
(b) The procedure for suspending a contractor from state tenders in cases where a party, after taking on a contract, abandons the work without completing it, or where the contract is terminated due to a loss incurred as a result of the contractor's negligence, shall be determined in the Public Finance Regulation.

Chapter 8
Miscellaneous

Unauthorized Acts

    In the following circumstances, the person responsible in that circumstance shall be deemed to have committed an unauthorized act under this Act:
    (a) Being a person responsible for the collection, recovery, deposit, or accounting of state funds or property, and being negligent in collecting, recovering, depositing, or accounting for the funds or property; or
    (b) Expending state funds, or selling, disposing of, or releasing state property in a manner other than that specified in this Act or the Public Finance Regulation; or
    (c) A shortfall in state funds for which one is responsible; or
    (d) Damage to state property for which one is responsible.
    (e) Acting contrary to this Act and the Public Finance Regulation formulated under this Act.

Taking Action for Unauthorized Acts

48.
(a) If any person is suspected of having committed an unauthorized act as specified in Article 47 of this Act, action shall be taken as follows under the Public Finance Regulation:
(1) After reviewing the matter through the mechanism established for reviewing such matters in the state office where the person suspected of committing the unauthorized act is employed, if the matter is found to involve a criminal offense, it shall be sent to the relevant investigative body.
(2) After reviewing the matter through the mechanism established for reviewing such matters in the state office where the person suspected of committing the unauthorized act is employed, that person may be fined as compensation for the loss incurred by them and ordered to pay the money. And if the fine is not paid, the matter shall be submitted to court to recover the money.
(b) The amount of the fine imposed under subsection (a)(2) of this Article shall be an amount determined as follows:
(1) An amount equal to the amount of state funds involved in the commission of the unauthorized act, or the value of the state property; or
(2) An amount equal to the amount of money deficient for which the employee is responsible; or
(3) An amount equal to the value of the state property sold, released, damaged, or lost by the employee.
(c) The purpose of a fine imposed as per subsection (b) of this Article shall be to fully recover the loss suffered by the state. And the right to recover compensation for the loss shall continue until the loss is fully compensated.
(d) Taking an action specified in this Article is not a bar to bringing a civil suit to recover compensation for the loss suffered by the state in connection with an act committed or omitted by a person suspected of committing an unauthorized act.
(e) After reviewing the matter through the mechanism established for reviewing such matters in the state office where the person suspected of committing the unauthorized act is employed, if the matter is found to be one that requires administrative action, action shall be taken as follows to take administrative action against that person:
(1) If a civil service employee, the matter shall be sent for action under Law No. 5/2007 (Maldives Civil Service Act) and the regulations made under that Act;
(2) If a non-civil service employee, the employer shall be instructed to take action according to the established procedure.
(f) In reviewing the matters specified in this Article, except for matters that require criminal investigation, the Minister is empowered to establish arrangements in state offices for reviewing other matters and taking action. And the procedures related to this shall be included in the Public Finance Regulation.

Making Regulations

    The Public Finance Regulation shall be made and implemented by the person or persons designated by the President for that purpose.

Repeal of the Loan Act

    Upon the commencement of this Act, Law No. 21/76 (Loan Act) is repealed.

Primacy of the Act

50-1.
(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law, this Act shall have primacy in relation to matters for which a specific course of action is specified in this Act, and in relation to other matters concerning state funds and property.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, in interpreting any of the terms "state property," "state funds," and "state office" included in this Act, the Maldives Monetary Authority and the property or funds of that Authority shall be excluded. And, property and funds under the control of that Authority shall be dealt with in the manner prescribed in Law No. 6/81 (Maldives Monetary Authority Act 1981).

Commencement

    This Act shall come into force on the date of its publication in the Government Gazette, in accordance with Article 92 of the Constitution.

Definitions

52.
(a) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:
"Special assistance" means assistance of the type specified in Article 10 of this Act.
"Contingent liability" means a debt or money that may have to be paid in the future if an event that is difficult to state with certainty occurs.
"Capital expenditure" means works and projects that inherently include capital expenditures for state purposes. It is not necessary for the work to include a physical asset.
"Undertaking" means an agreement in which one party agrees to another party to assume a financial responsibility.
"Indemnity" means a guarantee or assurance given by one party to another to compensate for loss or to compensate for a loss that may be incurred by either party as a result of an agreement made between two parties.
"Assets" means things, businesses, and property in the possession of a party that can be used to pay off debts and can be valued financially.
"Funds disbursed as an advance" means funds disbursed in advance.
"Financial year" means the period from January 1st to December 31st. In counting this period, the start and end dates of the period are included.
"Minister" means the minister of the government ministry to which the responsibility for implementing the state's financial policies is entrusted at the time.
"Party" includes a person or a company, or an association or organization established legally or otherwise.
"Approved budget" means the budget determined for a financial year and the funds determined to be added to an ongoing budget, in accordance with Article 96 of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives.
"Public Finance Regulation" means the regulations and procedures made and implemented under Article 49 of this Act.
"State property" means movable or immovable property owned by the state or under the custody of a person in the name of the state.
"State funds" or "funds" means all money received or held by any party in the Maldives or abroad on behalf of the state or in the name of the state as tax, charge, fee, duty, fine, or revenue, and documents convertible to money, and securities, and money held by the state on behalf of another party or in the name of another party, and loan funds, and money given by a particular party, and gifts, and interest received or receivable.
"Liabilities" means the debt owed by a business to its owners or to parties who have lent debt to the business. Or money that has to be paid.
"Guarantee" means the assurance by a third party not involved in an agreement or transaction to assume responsibility for the consequences arising from a party to the agreement or transaction breaching a condition of that agreement or transaction or failing to do something required by the agreement or transaction.
"State office" means all institutions within the legislative, executive, and judicial powers, and all institutions established under the Constitution and law, and island councils, atoll councils, and city councils.
"Supplementary budget" means an additional budget approved as part of a budget after a budget for a financial year has been approved.
"Responsible officer" means the officer appointed under Article 46 of this Act to manage the matters in this Act in the responsible state offices.
"Council debt" means debt taken by a council on its own responsibility as passed by the members of the council under Article 5-1 of this Act.
"Council" means an atoll, island, or city council as specified in Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act of the Maldives).
"Government" means the executive power, excluding local councils.
"State debt" means the total debt of the state, including the government and local councils.
"Program budget of state offices" means a budget structure where the expenditures of state offices are organized into programs based on the strategic goals and objectives that the offices aim to achieve, and which links expenditures to the results achieved.

(b) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:
(1) A word used in the singular includes its plural meaning. And a word used in the plural includes its singular meaning; and
(2) In situations where a word defined in this Act changes according to the rules of the language and the principles of speech, that meaning is also implied in the changing form of the word.
