Public Debt Law

Chapter One
Introduction

Introduction and Name
1.
(a) This is the law that sets out the principles regarding the borrowing of debt in the name of the state, the principles regarding the management of public debt, the principles regarding the issuance of sovereign guarantees by the state for debt incurred by local councils and state-owned enterprises, the principles regarding the disclosure and reporting of information related to public debt, and other related principles.
(b) This Law shall be cited as the "Public Debt Law".

Purpose of the Law
2.
The purpose of this Law is to achieve the following:
(a) To empower the government to borrow debt in the name of the state from within the Maldives and from outside the Maldives, in the most cost-effective manner, taking into account the risks of debt, in order to obtain the necessary funds for the state budget and for projects implemented under the Public Sector Investment Program;
(b) To ensure that the state borrows, maintains, and manages debt by assessing its impact on the national economy and future generations, and in a manner that sustains the country's economic self-sufficiency and the long-term sustainability of the state's fiscal and financial system;
(c) To set out the principles for the formulation and implementation of the state's medium-term debt strategy;
(d) To determine the instruments through which the state can incur debt, and to establish principles for borrowing debt in a transparent, open, and accountable manner;
(e) To enhance and sustain opportunities for the Maldives to obtain finance, with the state acting in accordance with principles related to the transparent, open, and accountable maintenance and management of public debt, and respecting the financial commitments made by the state;
(f) To diversify and develop the domestic financial market;
(g) To reduce the costs of borrowing in the medium and long term, and to reduce the risks associated with public debt by using strategies for sound risk management;
(h) To regularly disclose the results and related information regarding public debt to the People's Majlis, other relevant state offices, and the public;
(i) To set out the principles for holding the government accountable for borrowing, maintaining, and managing debt in the name of the state;
(j) To determine the extent to which local councils can borrow debt and the procedures they must follow; and
(k) To establish the principles for the state to follow when providing guarantees.

Chapter Two
State Borrowing

Borrowing in the Name of the State
3.
(a) Unless otherwise stated in this Law, the power to borrow debt in the name of the state and to carry out all matters related to such debt as specified in this Law, is vested in the Minister, excluding state-owned enterprises, public financial corporations of the state, and the central bank.
(b) The Minister shall borrow debt in the name of the state under subsection (a) of this section for one of the purposes specified in section 5 of this Law, with due regard to economic development, public interest, or the benefit and welfare of the people.
(c) The Minister shall borrow debt in the name of the state under subsection (a) of this section in a manner that does not conflict with the annual plan for state borrowing formulated under section 6 of this Law and the medium-term debt strategy of the state formulated under section 9 of this Law.
(d) Any proposal to borrow money for the state in the name of the state shall be submitted to the Minister in accordance with the regulations made under this Law. And, if such a proposal is received by the Minister, it is the Minister's responsibility to take the necessary steps regarding the borrowing of that debt in accordance with the law.

General Principles of Borrowing
4.
(a) When the Minister borrows debt in the name of the state under section 3(a) of this Law, he shall act prudently, in a sustainable manner, and in accordance with the principles of fiscal responsibility, taking into account the state's total debt capacity, creditworthiness, and long-term financial viability.
(b) Unless otherwise provided in this Law, the state shall not provide collateral when borrowing debt or issuing a sovereign guarantee under this Law.
(c) The power conferred upon the Minister to borrow in the name of the State under section 3(a) of this Law includes obtaining funds from within or outside the Maldives, and in Maldivian Rufiyaa or foreign currency.
(d) The government is hereby permanently and indefinitely authorized to withdraw funds from the Consolidated Revenue Fund to repay government debt.
(e) The Minister shall ensure that foreign debt agreements with foreign states and international organizations are entered into in accordance with the relevant laws.

Purpose of State Borrowing
5.
The state may borrow and use funds for the following purposes:
(a) To manage the state's cash flow;
(b) To finance the budget deficit;
(c) To refinance, restructure, and/or pre-finance previously incurred government debt;
(d) To make payments in the event of a contingent liability;
(e) To be disbursed to entities designated to issue Treasury loans and subsidiary loans under the Public Finance Act;
(f) To meet urgent financial needs arising from natural or environmental disasters or any other national emergency;
(g) To assist in maintaining an adequate level of foreign exchange reserves;
(h) To assist in carrying out matters determined by the central bank to achieve monetary policy objectives;
(i) To carry out any other matter for which the People's Majlis has given prior approval by a special resolution.

Formulation of the Annual State Borrowing Plan
6.
(a) The Debt Management Department shall formulate and submit to the Minister the annual state borrowing plan for the upcoming fiscal year.
(b) In formulating the annual plan under subsection (a) of this section, the Debt Management Department shall take into account the following:
(1) The medium-term debt strategy of the state formulated under section 9 of this Law;
(2) The cash flow forecast for the upcoming fiscal year.
(c) The annual plan referred to in subsection (a) of this section shall be formulated in a manner that does not conflict with the medium-term debt strategy of the state as provided for in section 9 of this Law and the plans made in accordance with the Fiscal Responsibility Charter and the Fiscal Strategy of the state formulated under the Fiscal Responsibility Act.
(d) The annual plan referred to in subsection (a) of this section shall include the following information:
(1) The estimated amount of debt the state needs to borrow in the upcoming fiscal year as per the annual state budget;
(2) The purposes for which the state is estimated to need to borrow as per the annual state budget;
(3) The main debt instruments to be used;
(4) The conditions that may be set for borrowing;
(5) The estimated periods during which the state's borrowing activities will be conducted;
(6) The maximum limit the state intends to borrow in that fiscal year;
(7) The amount by which the total public debt has increased or decreased; and
(8) The estimated amount of debt to be borrowed in Maldivian Rufiyaa and in foreign currency.
(e) The procedures for formulating and implementing the annual plan for state borrowing referred to in this section shall be set out in the regulations made under this Law.

Submission of the Annual State Borrowing Plan to the Majlis
7.
(a) The Minister shall submit the annual state borrowing plan, formulated under section 6 of this Law, to the People's Majlis 90 (ninety) days before the start of the upcoming fiscal year.
(b) The People's Majlis shall approve the annual state borrowing plan submitted by the Minister under subsection (a) of this section before the start of the upcoming fiscal year.
(c) The Minister shall submit to the People's Majlis, twice every fiscal year, information on the progress of the implementation of the annual state borrowing plan and an update on the activities completed so far in accordance with that plan.

Review and Publication of the Annual State Borrowing Plan
8.
(a) Should the Minister deem it necessary to review the annual state borrowing plan formulated under section 6 of this Law, the Minister shall, after reviewing the plan, submit the amended annual plan to the People's Majlis for approval.
(b) Upon approval by the People's Majlis of the annual state borrowing plan formulated under section 6 of this Law, and upon approval by the People's Majlis of the annual state borrowing plan reviewed under this section, the Minister shall make the plan public.

Chapter Three
State Debt Strategy

State Debt Strategy
9.
(a) In each fiscal year, the Minister, with the assistance of the Debt Management Department, shall formulate and keep updated a state debt strategy.
(b) The strategy referred to in subsection (a) of this section shall be a plan that includes the manner in which the operational targets for public debt, set for the medium term, are planned to be achieved, in line with the debt management objectives set out in section 14 of this Law.
(c) The strategy referred to in subsection (a) of this section shall be formulated based on the macroeconomic and fiscal framework, with due regard to international best practices in public debt management.

Approval of the State Debt Strategy
10.
(a) The State Debt Strategy shall be submitted to the President and approved before the 15th (fifteenth) day of July of each year.
(b) The State Debt Strategy as provided for in subsection (a) of this section shall be approved with the consultation of the Cabinet of Ministers.

Publication of the State Debt Strategy
11.
(a) In order to provide information on the measures being taken by the government to repay and maintain public debt on a sound basis, the Minister shall, before the end of July of each year, submit the strategy approved under section 10(a) of this Law, or an update of the strategy, to the People's Majlis for their information.
(b) Upon submission of the State Debt Strategy to the People's Majlis by the Minister under subsection (a) of this section, the strategy shall be made public.

Information to be Included in the State Debt Strategy
12.
The State Debt Strategy shall include at least the following information:
(a) The institutions and debt instruments included in the strategy;
(b) Detailed information on current and future projected economic and fiscal policies related to debt management, including changes in the financial market, debt projections, and interest and exchange rates;
(c) The targets set for debt management to bring the total public debt to a sustainable level;
(d) The use to which the borrowed funds will be put;
(e) The amount of debt required to finance the state's annual budget in the medium term, and the methods of borrowing;
(f) Details of measures being taken to reduce market risks, including exchange rate, interest rate, and refinancing risks, and information on the debt portfolio for a specified period;
(g) The amount of the state's external debt and domestic debt included in the total public debt portfolio, and the amount of debt guaranteed by the state, excluding other contingent liabilities, and the level at which the debt service cost will be maintained;
(h) Details of the results of the studies conducted to formulate the proposed state debt strategy, the limitations of those studies, the assumptions, and the details of the cost or risk trade-offs used to support the proposals of the strategy;
(i) The total amount of debt of local councils and the amount of debt guaranteed by the state to local councils;
(j) Information on the size and composition of sovereign guarantees, their contingent costs, and the risks they may pose to the strategy;
(k) The measures identified or being taken to reduce the risks of public debt;
(l) The measures identified or being taken to achieve the objectives of debt management; and
(m) The extent to which the previous debt strategy has been implemented.

Chapter Four
Maintenance and Management of Public Debt

Maintenance of Total Public Debt
13.
The total public debt shall be maintained within a sustainable framework, in a manner that minimizes risks.

Objectives of Public Debt Maintenance and Management
14.
The objectives of maintaining and managing public debt are to achieve the following:
(a) To facilitate the most cost-effective way to obtain the necessary funds for the state budget, after considering the risks of debt;
(b) To facilitate the necessary actions to diversify and develop the domestic financial market; and
(c) To facilitate the taking of necessary steps and the carrying out of necessary actions to obtain debt and other funds required by the state within a reasonable period of time.

Party with Primary Responsibility
15.
The Minister shall bear the ultimate responsibility for conducting and implementing the necessary actions related to the maintenance and management of public debt, as provided for in this Law and other relevant laws.

Establishment of the Debt Management Department
16.
(a) With the commencement of this Law, a department under the Ministry, to be called the "Debt Management Department," shall be established within 6 (six) months of the commencement of this Law, to carry out the necessary actions for the Minister to maintain and manage public debt.
(b) All legal responsibilities, employees, assets, resources, obligations, and privileges of the "Debt Management Department" of the Ministry that existed prior to the commencement of this Law are transferred to the Debt Management Department established under subsection (a) of this section upon its establishment.
(c) The Debt Management Department shall perform its duties professionally, free from political or any other party's influence.
(d) The Minister shall be accountable to the People's Majlis for matters related to the Debt Management Department.

Responsibilities of the Debt Management Department
17.
The responsibilities of the Debt Management Department are set out below:
(a) To record, maintain, and report information on debt incurred by the state under this Law, sovereign guarantees issued, and treasury loans and subsidiary loans issued by the government under the Public Finance Act;
(b) To establish standards for the recording, maintenance, and reporting of debt information as referred to in subsection (a) of this section;
(c) To formulate and submit to the Minister the annual state borrowing plan to be formulated as provided for in section 6 of this Law;
(d) To provide the necessary assistance to the Minister in formulating the medium-term state debt strategy to be formulated as provided for in section 9 of this Law;
(e) To provide the necessary assistance to the Minister in formulating the Debt Bulletin and the annual report on debt management to be formulated as provided for in section 32 of this Law;
(f) To do the following in order to develop the domestic financial market:
(1) Introduce various types of debt instruments to facilitate opportunities for those who wish to invest in the domestic financial market;
(2) To work with relevant authorities to make arrangements for the buying and selling of debt instruments in order to develop the secondary market of the domestic financial market;
(3) To work with regulatory bodies and all relevant parties to carry out other necessary actions to develop the domestic financial market.
(g) To establish the necessary relationships to access and maintain access to financial markets;
(h) To carry out the necessary work to maintain the credit rating of the Maldives at an appropriate level;
(i) To take the necessary steps to ensure that public debt is repaid on schedule;
(j) To take the necessary steps to reduce the risks inherent in the public debt portfolio;
(k) To report information on public debt to the government and the People's Majlis, and to send debt-related reports to the required parties, and to manage the publication of those reports;
(l) To monitor and report to the Minister on the amount of public debt and the terms of debt servicing;
(m) To advise the Minister or a person designated by the Minister on the terms of the debts proposed to be incurred by the state; and
(n) Other responsibilities as set out in the regulations made under this Law.

Reducing Debt Risks
18.
(a) It is the responsibility of the government to identify the risks that may arise from borrowing in the name of the state, maintaining and managing public debt, and other debt-related matters under this Law, and to work to reduce those risks in a manner that does not conflict with the state's fiscal policy.
(b) In order to maintain public debt in a manner that minimizes debt risks, the matters specified in this Law shall be carried out in accordance with the principles set out in the Fiscal Responsibility Act regarding the management of fiscal risks.

Chapter Five
Issuance of Sovereign Guarantees

General Provisions
19.
(a) The Minister shall issue sovereign guarantees in the name of the state to assure the repayment of debt in accordance with the principles and procedures set out in this Law.
(b) The power and responsibility to issue sovereign guarantees under subsection (a) of this section includes the authority to grant permission for the issuance of such guarantees and the responsibility to manage and oversee the related administrative matters.
(c) Sovereign guarantees shall be issued only for the public interest and up to the maximum limit determined under the Fiscal Responsibility Act.
(d) A sovereign guarantee shall be issued by a written document signed by the Minister. And that document shall detail the party to whom the guarantee is issued, the terms of the guarantee, and all contingent situations in which the state would be required to make payments under the guarantee.
(e) Any sovereign guarantee document in which any of the matters to be completed in relation to a sovereign guarantee under this section is incomplete is a void document.
(f) Before issuing a sovereign guarantee, the Minister shall seek the advice of the Debt Management Department on the risks that the guarantee may pose to the state, the terms of the guarantee, the guarantee fee to be charged for the guarantee, and whether collateral needs to be taken in connection with the guarantee.
(g) The party requesting a sovereign guarantee shall pay the guarantee fee and any other fee determined in connection therewith to the government.
(h) Notwithstanding subsection (k) of this section, the Minister has the discretion to waive the guarantee fee and any other specified fee, or a portion thereof, in individual cases, taking into account the extent of the benefit to the public interest, upon the advice of the Debt Management Department and in accordance with the regulations made under this Law.
(i) If it is decided to waive the guarantee fee and any other specified fee under subsection (o) of this section, the party requesting the guarantee shall be notified in writing of the reason for the waiver.
(j) The guarantee fee and any other fee collected in connection with sovereign guarantees shall be deposited into the Sovereign Development Fund.
(k) The entities to which sovereign guarantees may and may not be issued, the procedure for applying for a sovereign guarantee, the procedure for granting permission, the guarantee fee and other fees charged for a sovereign guarantee, the circumstances in which fees may be waived, and other related details shall be specified in the regulations made under this Law.

Payment Under a Sovereign Guarantee and Invalidation of a Sovereign Guarantee
20.
(a) If the party that has taken the debt specified in the sovereign guarantee document is unable to repay the debt, the sovereign guarantee shall be converted into a public debt. The debt arising from the conversion of such a sovereign guarantee into a public debt shall not be included within the borrowing limit specified in the state budget.
(b) A sovereign guarantee shall be invalidated and its invalidation shall be registered and recorded in the following circumstances:
(1) The party that took the debt for which the sovereign guarantee was issued has fully repaid the debt in accordance with the debt agreement;
(2) The debt agreement for which the sovereign guarantee was issued is invalidated;
(3) The period for which the sovereign guarantee was issued has expired.
(c) Even if the state pays a portion of a debt for which a sovereign guarantee has been issued because the party that took the debt failed to pay that portion in accordance with the sovereign guarantee, all obligations of the party that took the debt to the party that lent the debt with respect to the remaining portion of the debt shall remain in effect.

Recovery of Payments Made Under a Sovereign Guarantee
21.
(a) In the event that the state makes a payment in accordance with a demand from the lender to pay under a sovereign guarantee, the amount of money paid by the government to repay the debt and other related costs may be recovered in accordance with this Law and the regulations made under this Law.
(b) The responsibility of the party that took the debt to pay the government, as stated in subsection (a) of this section, is an absolute and unconditional responsibility.
(c) The Minister shall take all possible measures under this Law and other laws to recover the sovereign guarantee and other expenses incurred in connection with the guarantee.
(d) When a sovereign guarantee is issued, an indemnity agreement containing the matters specified in subsection (a) of this section shall be signed between the government and the party taking the debt for which the sovereign guarantee is issued.
(e) The agreement referred to in subsection (d) of this section shall state that in the event of a demand for payment under the sovereign guarantee, the government has the option to immediately deduct the amount of money required to be paid to repay the debt from the bank account of the party that took the debt.

Chapter Six
Debt of Local Councils and State-Owned Enterprises

Borrowing by Local Councils
22.
(a) Local councils may borrow debt to obtain the necessary funds to implement projects included in their development plans under the Decentralization Act of the Maldives.
(b) Unless otherwise provided in this Law, local councils may borrow under subsection (a) of this section from banks established in the Maldives, other financial institutions, and other local councils.
(c) Unless otherwise provided in this Law, local councils shall, when borrowing debt, act in accordance with the principles and procedures set out in this Law and the regulations made under this Law.

Long-Term Debt of Councils
23.
(a) A local council has the option to borrow long-term debt in Maldivian Rufiyaa to implement a project included in its development plan in accordance with the Decentralization Act of the Maldives.
(b) Unless otherwise stated in this Law, a local council may borrow under subsection (a) of this section from a bank or other financial institution established in the Maldives, or from another local council.
(c) A local council may borrow long-term debt in foreign currency only under a subsidiary loan agreement signed with the government. And such transactions shall be carried out in accordance with the principles set out in the Public Finance Act and the regulations made thereunder.
(d) Before a local council decides to borrow any long-term debt, a resolution must be passed by a majority of the entire council at a public meeting of the council and that resolution must be made public.
(e) The resolution referred to in subsection (d) of this section shall include, among other things, the amount of the debt, the terms of the debt, the due diligence of the lender, the purpose for which the debt is being taken, matters related to collateral if any, and the manner in which funds are arranged for the repayment of the debt. In addition, the resolution shall contain an assurance from the members of that council that the debt and any matter related to the borrowing of that debt does not contravene any of the conditions set out in this Law.
(f) In addition to the matters referred to in subsection (e) of this section, the details of the information that must be included in the resolution to be passed by the local councils, the information that must be included in the resolution regarding the collateral to be given as security to the lenders of long-term debt to the councils, and information on the items that cannot be given as collateral by the councils, shall be specified in the regulations made under this Law.
(g) A debt incurred with the authorization of a local council resolution, unless there is a sovereign guarantee that explicitly supports it, shall not, either directly or indirectly, create an obligation on the Maldivian state to repay the debt of the local council. The responsibility for repaying such debt incurred by local councils shall rest solely with those councils.
(h) The terms of each long-term debt shall specify the means to be used for the repayment of the debt. And, the budget of the local council shall include the amount allocated for debt repayment in each fiscal year.
(i) Each time a local council borrows a long-term debt, the council shall send a notice of the borrowing of that debt to the Minister within 15 (fifteen) days of borrowing the debt, in the manner specified in the regulations made under this Law.
(j) The procedure for councils to follow when giving notice under subsection (i) of this section shall be specified in the regulations made under this Law.

Short-Term Debt of Councils
24.
(a) Local councils may borrow short-term debt to finance a short-term cash flow deficit.
(b) Short-term debt under subsection (a) of this section shall only be in the form of a bank loan, overdraft, advance credit facility, or a loan from another local council.
(c) Taking into account the limit on borrowing by councils as determined under this Law, the local councils shall, each year, determine the amount of short-term debt to be borrowed by a majority of the members of that council, and pass and publish a resolution.
(d) A local council may borrow short-term debt only in Maldivian Rufiyaa.

Borrowing Limit for Local Councils
25.
(a) The total debt of a local council shall at no time exceed 1/2 (one-half) of the council's average income for the past 3 (three) years (excluding block grants or grants from the government).
(b) For the purpose of this section, total debt shall include long-term debt, short-term debt, and the outstanding amount of debt guaranteed by the council.

Lending by Local Councils
26.
(a) Local councils have the option to grant loans to other local councils and to other parties determined by the Minister under this Law and the Public Finance Act, under section 82 of the Decentralization Act of the Maldives.
(b) The principles and procedures for lending by local councils and for the recovery of loans under subsection (a) of this section shall be set out in the regulations made under this Law.

Guarantees by Local Councils
27.
(a) A local council shall not provide a guarantee in relation to the financial responsibility of any third party, except for a local authority company in which the local council holds a 100% (one hundred percent) stake.
(b) Each such company as referred to in subsection (a) of this section shall inform its creditors that the debts of the company that do not benefit from a guarantee issued by the council are solely the obligations of that company, and that the local council has no obligation, either directly or indirectly, in relation to those debts.

Additional Conditions for Borrowing by Local Councils
28.
(a) If the Auditor General has given a modified audit opinion in the audit report of a local council for the past 2 (two) years, that local council shall not be able to borrow debt in that year.
(b) If a local council has not regularly paid the money due on a debt it has taken, that council shall not be able to borrow any additional or new debt for a period of 2 (two) years from the date the debt became due and was not paid.
(c) A grant issued by the government to a local council or any income or grant available to the council shall not be pledged as security.

Default by Local Council
29.
(a) If a local council fails to pay the money due on a debt it has taken on the due date, it shall submit a report to the Minister on the reason for the non-payment and the steps the council will take to make arrangements for payment.
(b) The information to be included in the report referred to in subsection (a) of this section shall be determined in the regulations made under this Law.

Obtaining Permission for Borrowing by State-Owned Enterprises
30.
(a) If a state-owned enterprise borrows a debt with a sovereign guarantee from the government or in the form of a subsidiary loan from the government, it shall, before borrowing the debt, apply for the Minister's permission and submit a proposal to the Minister in connection therewith.
(b) The Minister may grant permission for this, after conducting an assessment of the debt proposed to be taken by the company, taking into account the proposal submitted by the state-owned enterprise under this section, and the current and projected fiscal, financial, and debt situation.
(c) Within a maximum of 15 (fifteen) days of receiving a proposal from a state-owned enterprise, the Minister shall, in addition to completing the matters referred to in subsection (b) of this section, conduct the required assessment and send that assessment to the company's board.
(d) The Ministry shall determine the procedure to be followed if a state-owned enterprise borrows any further debt after borrowing a debt with a sovereign guarantee from the government under this section.
(e) The criteria and procedures for granting the permissions referred to in this section, conducting the assessment, and other matters related to the assessment shall be specified in the regulations made under this Law.
(f) A debt incurred by a state-owned enterprise, unless there is a sovereign guarantee explicitly authorizing it, shall not, either directly or indirectly, create an obligation on the Maldivian state to repay the debt of that company. And, the responsibility for repaying the debt incurred by state-owned enterprises shall rest solely with those companies.

Chapter Seven
Debt Monitoring, Auditing, and Reporting

Monitoring of Public Debt
31.
(a) The Debt Management Department shall record, in a timely manner, accurate and detailed information on the outstanding public debt, sovereign guarantees, and loans issued, and maintain it in a suitable database. And, the extent to which local councils and state-owned enterprises are indebted shall be regularly monitored.
(b) It is the responsibility of each respective institution and office to maintain the information maintained by them from among the information referred to in subsection (a) of this section, and to provide it to the Ministry in accordance with the regulations made under this Law.
(c) For the purpose of this section, the Minister or a person designated by the Minister has the following powers in relation to monitoring public debt:
(1) To instruct any state agency, local council, or state-owned enterprise to provide information on financial or non-financial performance;
(2) To request state agencies, parties from whom the state has borrowed, parties to whom debt has been lent, and parties to whom sovereign guarantees have been issued, to provide information on outstanding loans and guarantees;
(3) To request further information on debt instruments signed by a local council or a state-owned enterprise.
(d) The information referred to in subsection (b) of this section shall be provided by the relevant authority within a period determined under the regulations made under this Law.

Preparation and Publication of Reports
32.
The Minister, with the assistance of the Debt Management Department, shall prepare and publish the following information:
(a) A Debt Bulletin containing the following information shall be published to the public within 45 (forty-five) days of the end of each quarter:
(1) Debt incurred within a specified period;
(2) The outstanding balance of government debt and the currencies it comprises;
(3) Risks to the debt portfolio;
(4) The extent to which things have progressed in accordance with the approved state debt strategy;
(5) Administrative and legal changes related to debt management;
(6) Other important financial information.
(b) An annual report on debt management containing the following information shall be prepared and submitted to the People's Majlis and published by the Ministry within 30 (thirty) days of the end of the first quarter of the following year:
(1) The extent to which the government has acted in accordance with the annual borrowing plan and the approved state debt strategy in managing debt;
(2) The government's outstanding debt and matters related to its repayment;
(3) All outstanding loans from among the loans issued by the government, especially overdue loans, the overdue period, and the interest accrued from the date of overdue;
(4) All sovereign guarantees issued during the year, and all outstanding sovereign guarantees, with the sector and companies to which the guarantees were issued separately identifiable;
(5) The debt incurred by each local council in that year, the debt incurred by state-owned enterprises with sovereign guarantees in that year, and the outstanding balance of that debt;
(6) The money received by the fund designated for the deposit of guarantee fees during the fiscal year, the money withdrawn from that fund, the unpaid money, and the balance remaining in the fund at the end of the year; and
(7) A statement of public debt and a statement of government-guaranteed debt prepared in a manner determined by the Minister with the advice of the Auditor General.

Matters to be Reported by Local Councils and State-Owned Enterprises
33.
(a) Local councils shall submit to the Ministry, within a maximum of 45 (forty-five) days of the end of each year, information on their outstanding debt, including overdrafts, new loans, other financial obligations, and other contingencies for which they are responsible, and information on the debt incurred by state-owned enterprises with guarantees under this Law.
(b) The manner of reporting under subsection (a) of this section and the information to be included in the report shall be included in the regulations formulated by the Minister.
(c) It is the responsibility of local councils and state-owned enterprises to maintain all information related to the debt they incur.
(d) The Auditor General has the authority to audit all matters related to the debt incurred by local councils and the debt incurred by state-owned enterprises for which the government has issued a sovereign guarantee.

Auditing
34.
(a) The Auditor General shall conduct audits of the operations of public debt borrowing and maintenance, including the amount of debt borrowed by the state, the manner in which those debts are being repaid, the manner in which sovereign guarantees are being maintained, and the collateral held in connection with those debts, and shall prepare a relevant audit report. And, the audit report so prepared shall be submitted to the People's Majlis.
(b) The Minister shall, within a reasonable period of time, rectify the matters that the Auditor General identifies as needing rectification in the audit reports referred to in subsection (a) of this section.

External Audit
35.
(a) If an external lender requires a risk analysis to be conducted to determine the overall public debt situation when lending to the state, or if a debt agreement stipulates that an external audit of the public debt be conducted, such an audit may be conducted through an independent auditor.
(b) If an external audit as referred to in subsection (a) of this section is conducted, the responsibilities of the auditor conducting the audit and the standards to be followed in conducting the audit shall be determined in the regulations made under this Law, in accordance with the advice of the Auditor General.

Audit Procedures
36.
The periods for conducting the audits to be conducted in relation to public debt under this Law, and the principles and procedures for auditing, shall be set out in the regulations made by the Auditor General under this Law.

Publication of Audit Report
37.
The audit report related to every audit conducted under this Law shall be published to the public.

Chapter Eight
Miscellaneous

Delegation of Responsibility to Another Party
38.
Of the responsibilities vested in the Minister under this Law, all other responsibilities, except for the power to make regulations, may be delegated in writing to another state body. The delegation of a responsibility of the Minister to another party in this manner shall not be a matter that absolves the Minister from the responsibility he has to perform or from the use of the power conferred upon him.

Consequences of Issuing Debt, Guarantees, and Loans Without Authorization
39.
The state shall not be obliged to act upon the provisions contained in a debt, subsidiary loan, or sovereign guarantee document signed by a party other than the Minister or a state body authorized in writing by the Minister, purporting to be from the government or on behalf of the government.

Reading this Law in Conjunction with Other Laws
40.
This Law shall be read in conjunction with the Public Finance Act and the Fiscal Responsibility Act.

Conflict with the Law
41.
(a) In the event of a conflict between a provision of this Law and a provision of another law passed by the People's Majlis before the commencement of this Law, this Law shall prevail over such laws. However, the validity of the debt and sovereign guarantees of the state, local councils, and state-owned enterprises signed in accordance with the law before the commencement of this Law shall remain in effect.
(b) The provisions of this Law relating to the collection, recording, maintenance, and disclosure of information on debt or contingent liabilities shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with the purposes of this Law. And, no restriction shall be placed on matters set out in a special or general law concerning the granting of financial autonomy to local councils and state-owned enterprises.

Making Regulations
42.
(a) The Minister shall make regulations, including the matters that must be specified in a regulation made under this Law as stated in this Law, the matters for which regulations may be formulated in connection therewith, and all actions to be taken under this Law for its implementation, including the following:
(1) The procedures and principles to be followed by the government in issuing and managing debt;
(2) The issuance of sovereign guarantees, the purpose of issuing sovereign guarantees, the conditions that the recipient must meet, and the conditions under which guarantees may be issued;
(3) The issuance of loans from the government's own funds or through treasury loans and subsidiary loans, their purpose, the conditions that the recipient of the loan must meet, and the conditions under which loans may be issued;
(4) The administrative structure of the Debt Management Department and the responsibilities of its subunits;
(5) The procedures for approving proposals submitted by local councils for borrowing, the minimum information to be included in the resolution passed by the local council for borrowing, and any obstacle to the security that may be used as collateral by local councils;
(6) The manner in which debt proposals related to the debt incurred by state-owned enterprises with sovereign guarantees from the state are to be submitted, the manner in which the conditions are to be assessed, and the procedure to be followed by state-owned enterprises that have been issued sovereign guarantees when borrowing further debt;
(7) Matters to be reported by local councils and state-owned enterprises under this Law.
(b) Except for the regulations referred to in section 35(b) of this Law, the regulations related to auditing under this Law shall be made by the Auditor General.
(c) The regulations to be made under this Law shall be made and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives within 3 (three) months from the date of commencement of this Law.

Commencement of the Law
43.
(a) This Law shall come into force on the date of the expiry of 6 (six) months from the date on which this Law is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, if the President, upon the advice of the Minister, deems that the implementation of the following sections or any of them is contingent upon the introduction of specific principles or systems, the President has the power to postpone the implementation of that section or sections for the following periods:
(1) Postponement of the implementation of section 25 of this Law for a period of not more than 24 (twenty-four) months from the date of commencement of this Law;
(2) Postponement of the implementation of any other section or sections, other than section 25 of this Law, for a period of not more than 12 (twelve) months from the date of commencement of this Law.
(c) The President shall determine the postponement of the implementation of any section or sections of this Law under subsection (b) of this section by a Presidential Decree published at the time of ratification of this Law. And the date determined by the President for the implementation of that section or sections shall be stated in that decree.

Definitions
44.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given to them below:
(a) "Pledge" or "to pledge" means to provide something that can be sold or rented to secure the rights of the lender if the debt is not repaid when a debt is incurred. A pledge is anything so provided.
(b) "Refinancing" means to borrow debt to obtain the necessary funds to repay previously incurred debts.
(c) "Restructuring" means to make changes to the costs of a debt, the period for its repayment, or its other financial obligations and terms, under a legal procedure or in consultation with creditors.
(d) "Short-term debt" means a debt that must be repaid as a debt within one year or a shorter period from the date of borrowing.
(e) "Contingent liability" means financial liabilities that the state may have to bear due to a future event, even if the state does not have full control over it. This includes debt guaranteed by the state.
(f) "Accounts payable and receivable" means money payable to or by the state in connection with a business transaction.
(g) "Operational targets" means the medium-term targets set in the fiscal strategy statement to achieve the fiscal targets set in the fiscal responsibility charter.
(h) "Special Drawing Rights" means the Special Drawing Rights held by the state as official reserves at the International Monetary Fund.
(i) "Macroeconomic and fiscal framework" means the model used in the formulation of the state's medium-term annual budget, by using macroeconomic and fiscal forecasts and linking the forecasts of the two to the budget and revenue.
(j) "Debt" means the financial instruments of debt, among the financial obligations for which the state bears a future financial responsibility to pay the principal and/or interest of the debt. Debt instruments include monetary gold and special drawing rights, currency and deposits, debt securities, loans, insurance and pensions, standardized guarantee schemes, and accounts payables and receivables.
(k) "Borrowing" means the raising of funds by the state through debt instruments.
(l) "Debt service" means the payment of all fees and other expenses payable in connection with the debt in accordance with the obligations and terms of borrowing, in addition to all payments to be made based on the interest and principal arising from the debt.
(m) "Public debt" means the debt instruments specified in the Fiscal Responsibility Charter of the state, the debt incurred by the entities included in the definition of the state in that charter, and the debt that the state is obliged to repay in the event that a sovereign guarantee issued in the name of the state for a debt incurred by a party not included in the definition of the state is not repaid by the party that incurred the debt.
(n) "Total public debt" means the total of the debt incurred by the state after consolidating the public debt payable from one party of the state to another.
(o) "Net public debt" means the amount obtained by subtracting the total financial assets related to the public debt from the total public debt.
(p) "State-guaranteed debt" means a legal assurance that the government will repay a debt obligation (in whole or in part) of another legal person in the event of a pre-determined contingent situation. It does not include other contingent liabilities such as payment guarantees given by the government.
(q) "State debt strategy" means the state's debt policies and the plan to obtain the necessary funds for the state at the lowest cost and to reduce the risks of debt.
(r) "Long-term debt" means a debt that must be repaid as a debt over a period longer than one year from the date of borrowing.
(s) "Subsidiary loan" means the lending of a debt incurred by the state or a portion thereof, or a grant received by the state or a portion thereof, to another party through a debt instrument specified in this Law.
(t) "Sovereign guarantee" means a legal assurance given on behalf of the state that a financial obligation (in whole or in part) of another legal person will be fulfilled in the event of a pre-determined contingency.
(u) "Debt securities" means securities issued by the government or another party on behalf of the government, in electronic or book-entry form, in the name of a specified party or as bearer instruments. Securities issued by the government include Islamic securities, promissory notes, and other such financial instruments.
(v) "Treasury loan" means the lending of money to another party through a debt instrument specified in this Law, without any connection to any debt incurred by the state.
(w) "Public Sector Investment Program" means the plan for projects that the state plans to implement with priority in the medium term to establish the necessary infrastructure and building development resources for the Maldives.
(x) "Public interest" means actions taken with the aim of promoting the public interest, including the following:
(1) Providing social and economic benefits to the entire society or a large part of society;
(2) Promoting the economic development of the Maldives; and
(3) Assisting in resolving issues where creditworthy parties are unable to obtain loans from credit markets due to market failure.
(y) "To publish publicly" means to publish on the Ministry's website, in the form of a book, or in any other way, for public dissemination.
(z) "Minister" means the minister of the government ministry to which the conduct of matters related to the state's finances is entrusted at the time.
(aa) "Ministry" means the government ministry to which the responsibility for implementing the state's financial policies is entrusted at the time.
(bb) "Fiscal year" means the period from 1 January to 31 December, inclusive of the start and end dates of that period.
(cc) "Medium-term" means a period of three consecutive fiscal years in the future.
(dd) "State" means all institutions of the legislative, executive, and judicial branches, all institutions established under the Constitution and the law, local councils, and state-owned enterprises, excluding public financial corporations and the Maldives Monetary Authority.
(ee) "Fiscal Responsibility Charter of the State" means the charter formulated by the Minister under the Fiscal Responsibility Act of the state, to be implemented for a period of 5 (five) years of that presidential term, within 6 (six) months of the commencement of each presidential term, in accordance with the Fiscal Responsibility Act of the state.
(ff) "Fiscal Strategy of the State" means the meaning given to that phrase in the Fiscal Responsibility Act of the state.
(gg) "State budget" or "annual state budget" means the budget submitted to the People's Majlis by the Minister under Article 96(a) of the Constitution and approved by the Majlis under Article 96(b) of that Article.
(hh) "State office" means all agencies, institutions, and local councils run with expenditure from the state budget, which are included in the definition of the state.
(ii) "State-owned enterprises" means companies in which the government or a local council, either directly or indirectly, controls all or a majority, by way of ownership or otherwise, excluding financial institutions and the central bank.
(jj) "Public financial corporations of the state" means corporations, including financial institutions and banks, in which the government, either directly or indirectly, controls all or a majority, by way of ownership or otherwise, excluding the central bank.
(kk) "Local council" means the island councils, atoll councils, and city councils established under Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act of the Maldives) for the purpose of administering the administrative divisions of the Maldives on a decentralized basis.
(ll) "Loan" means the provision of money by a creditor to a debtor for later repayment, through a non-negotiable document/agreement.
(mm) "Government" means all institutions of the state, including local councils.
(nn) "Debt Management Department" means the department established in the Ministry under section 16 of this Law to perform the responsibilities of maintaining and managing public debt, as provided for in this Law.
(oo) "Consolidated Revenue Fund" means the account of public funds opened and maintained under the name of the Consolidated Revenue Fund under Law No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act).
(pp) "Sovereign Development Fund" means the fund established under the Sovereign Development Fund Act.
(qq) "Central bank" means the Maldives Monetary Authority.
(rr) "Modified audit opinion" means a "disclaimer of opinion," "qualified opinion," or "adverse opinion" as defined in the International Auditing Standards as a modified opinion.
(ss) "Domestic financial market" means the market that arises in the buying and selling of financial instruments in the domestic market or domestic market of the Maldives.
