Sexual Offences Act

Chapter One
Introduction and Purpose

Introduction and Name
1.
(a) This is the Act to define sexual offences in the Maldives and to state the procedures related to such offences.
(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Sexual Offences Act".

Purpose
2.
The purpose of this Act is to achieve the following objectives:
(a) To reform and strengthen the legal principles applied in relation to sexual offences;
(b) To define sexual offences and determine the penalties for those offences;
(c) To state the legal presumptions in relation to the act of a sexual offence;
(d) To establish the standards for defining consent in relation to the act of a sexual offence;
(e) To introduce a procedure for obtaining compensation for damages incurred by victims of sexual offences; and
(f) To facilitate the means for making information about persons convicted of sexual offences publicly available.

Status of the Act
3.
(a) If an offence stated in this Act is also an offence in Islamic Sharia, and the elements of the offence in Islamic Sharia are the same as the elements of the offence defined in this Act, the penalty prescribed in this Act shall be in addition to the penalty prescribed for that offence in Islamic Sharia.
(b) If an offence stated in this Act is also an offence in Islamic Sharia, but the elements of the offence in Islamic Sharia are different from the elements of the offence defined in this Act, the penalty for that offence shall be administered under this Act if the elements of the offence are fulfilled as per this Act. If the elements of the offence are fulfilled only for the offence as defined in Islamic Sharia, it shall be as per Islamic Sharia.
(c) The fact that an offence stated in this Act is an offence in Islamic Sharia and is punishable under Islamic Sharia shall not be a reason for not imposing a penalty for that offence under this Act. And, for an offence defined as a crime in both Islamic Sharia and this Act, imposing a penalty under this Act in addition to the penalty given under Islamic Sharia shall not, for the purpose of Article 60 of the Constitution, be considered as prosecuting for the same offence twice. And, in that situation, it shall be considered that two penalties are mandated for one offence.
(d) If any procedure stated in this Act, in itself or in its application, conflicts with or contradicts a law that came into force before this Act, including Act No. 12/2009 (Special Measures for Dealing with Persons Who Sexually Abuse Children Act), the procedure stated in this Act shall be followed in that matter.

Index
4.
(a) The fundamental concepts upon which this Act is based are in Chapter Two of this Act.
(b) The meanings of important words and phrases included in this Act are in Article 69 of this Act.

Chapter Two
Index of Concepts

Basis of Concepts
5.
The phrases stated from Article 6 to Article 13 of this Act are the fundamental concepts upon which this Act is based. Those concepts are stated in those articles to preserve the essence of this Act and to facilitate the achievement of the purpose of this Act to its fullest extent. Every article of this Act shall be read in a manner that does not narrow these concepts.

Rape
6.
"Rape" refers to the penetration, however slight, of a person's sexual organ into another person's sexual organ or a non-sexual organ, without that person's consent, between two persons who are not a married couple, or between a married couple.

Sexual Assault
7.
"Sexual Assault" refers to, in a manner not constituting rape, the penetration of any part of another person's body into a person's sexual organ or non-sexual organ without their consent. Or, the penetration of any object by another person into a person's sexual organ or non-sexual organ without their consent.

Sexual Harassment
8.
"Sexual Harassment" refers to, in a manner not constituting rape and not constituting sexual assault, with sexual intent, or even without sexual intent, a person touching another's sexual organ with or without any tool or object, without their consent. Or, causing a person's sexual organ to be exposed without their consent. Or, causing harm to a person's sexual organ without their consent. Or, committing any other indecent act towards a person's sexual organ without their consent.

Sexual Act
9.
"Sexual Act" refers to an act, whether it be committing fornication with a person, or touching a person's sexual organ, or committing another act concerning a person's sexual organ or non-sexual organ, which, when considered with reasonable thought, is believed to have been committed with sexual intent. Or, an act for which it cannot be deemed that it was committed for a reason other than sexual intent in the circumstances in which it was committed.

Sexual Intent
10.
"Sexual Intent" refers to the decision to do a particular thing to fulfill a carnal desire. Or, an act done to achieve a carnal desire.

Family
11.
"Family" refers to persons related to a person in one of the following ways:
(a) Children, step-children, step-mother, or step-father; or
(b) Mother, father, grandfather, grandmother, great-grandfather, or great-grandmother; or
(c) Full-sibling, maternal half-sibling or paternal half-sibling; or
(d) Aunt, grandaunt, uncle, or granduncle; or
(e) A person who becomes a brother or sister through milk kinship; or
(f) Son-in-law or daughter-in-law, spouse's mother, spouse's father; or
(g) Any other person to whom legal guardianship is assigned.

Consent
12.
"Consent" refers to a person having the capacity, of their own free will and in their freedom, to choose a way or matter they desire. Or, the free capacity afforded to a person to choose a way or matter they desire.

Mahram
13.
"Mahram" refers to any person with whom marriage is permanently forbidden in Islamic Sharia due to a relationship or circumstance.

Chapter Three
Defining Offences

Offence of Rape
14.
(a) Raping a person is an offence.
(b) For the purpose of the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article, consent shall not be deemed to exist in the following circumstances:
(1) Consent obtained by threat of death, or by assault, or by threat of assault, or by threatening to kill or assault a person related by kinship or marriage; or
(2) Consent obtained by misleading them based on false facts; or
(3) Consent obtained by misleading them as to the nature of the act being committed; or
(4) Consent obtained by misleading them as to the identity of the perpetrator.
(c) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article, if the offence was committed using a dangerous weapon, is imprisonment for a term between 20 (twenty) years and 25 (twenty-five) years. If the offence was committed in any other manner, the penalty is imprisonment for a term between 15 (fifteen) years and 20 (twenty) years.

Offence of Attempted Rape
15.
(a) Attempting to rape a person, or participating in raping a person, or aiding in raping a person, is an offence.
(b) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article, if the offence was committed using a dangerous weapon, is imprisonment for a term between 10 (ten) years and 15 (fifteen) years. If the offence was committed in any other manner, the penalty is imprisonment for a term between 7 (seven) years and 10 (ten) years.

Offence of Sexual Assault
16.
(a) Sexually assaulting a person is an offence.
(b) For the purpose of the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article, consent shall not be deemed to exist in the following circumstances:
(1) Consent obtained by threat of death, or by assault, or by threat of assault, or by threatening to kill or assault a person related by kinship or marriage; or
(2) Consent obtained by misleading them based on false facts; or
(3) Consent obtained by misleading them as to the nature of the act being committed; or
(4) Consent obtained by misleading them as to the identity of the perpetrator.
(c) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 10 (ten) years and 15 (fifteen) years.

Offence of Attempted Sexual Assault
17.
(a) Attempting to sexually assault a person, or participating in sexually assaulting a person, or aiding in sexually assaulting a person, is an offence.
(b) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 7 (seven) years and 10 (ten) years.

Offence of Sexual Harassment
18.
(a) Sexually harassing a person is an offence.
(b) For the purpose of the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article, consent shall not be deemed to exist in the following circumstances:
(1) Consent obtained by threat of death, or by assault, or by threat of assault, or by threatening to kill or assault a person related by kinship or marriage; or
(2) Consent obtained by misleading them based on false facts; or
(3) Consent obtained by misleading them as to the nature of the act being committed; or
(4) Consent obtained by misleading them as to the identity of the perpetrator.
(c) Touching a person's body with one's hand or another tool or object during a legally permitted body search, or by an authorized person for a health purpose, in a situation where sexual intent cannot be presumed, shall not be an act included within the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article.
(d) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article, if the offence was committed using a dangerous weapon, is imprisonment for a term between 7 (seven) years and 10 (ten) years. If the offence was committed in any other manner, the penalty is imprisonment for a term between 3 (three) years and 7 (seven) years.

Offence of Attempted Sexual Harassment
19.
(a) Attempting to commit the offence of sexual harassment, or participating in committing that offence, or aiding in committing that offence, is an offence.
(b) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article, if the offence was committed using a dangerous weapon, is imprisonment for a term between 3 (three) years and 7 (seven) years. If the offence was committed in any other manner, the penalty is imprisonment for a term between 1 (one) year and 3 (three) years.

Offence of Committing a Sexual Act with a Mahram
21.
(a) If a person commits a sexual act with their mahram with the consent of both, both have committed an offence.
(b) If a person commits a sexual act with their mahram without the consent of that mahram, they have committed an offence.
(c) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 10 (ten) years and 15 (fifteen) years.
(d) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (b) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 15 (fifteen) years and 25 (twenty-five) years.

Offence of Attempting to Commit a Sexual Act with a Mahram
22.
(a) Participating in committing a sexual act with one's mahram, or attempting to do so, or aiding in doing so, is an offence.
(b) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 7 (seven) years and 10 (ten) years.

Offence of Knowingly Failing to Report
23.
(a) Knowingly failing to report to the police or the Family Protection Authority that a person has committed, is committing, or did commit a sexual act with their mahram is an offence.
(b) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 (six) months.

Offence of Committing a Homosexual Act
24.
(a) If a person commits a sexual act with a person of the same sex with the consent of both, both have committed an offence.
(b) If a person commits a sexual act with a person of the same sex without that person's consent, they have committed an offence.
(c) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 5 (five) years and 7 (seven) years.
(d) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (b) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 7 (seven) years and 10 (ten) years.

Offence of Committing a Sexual Act with an Animal
25.
(a) A person committing a sexual act with a living or dead animal is an offence.
(b) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 5 (five) years and 7 (seven) years.

Offence of Committing a Sexual Act with a Corpse
26.
(a) A person committing a sexual act with a corpse is an offence.
(b) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 20 (twenty) years and 25 (twenty-five) years.

Offence of Zina (Fornication/Adultery)
27.
(a) A person committing zina is an offence.
(b) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is 100 (one hundred) lashes as a hadd punishment, along with house arrest for a term between 1 (one) year and 3 (three) years.

Offence of Committing a Sexual Act with a Person with a Disability
28.
(a) It is an offence for a person to commit a sexual act with a person, knowing that due to a mental impairment, they do not have the opportunity to consent to a sexual act, or knowing that they cannot comprehend what is being done, or knowing that they do not have the capacity to give consent.
(b) For the purpose of this Act, a person with a mental impairment shall not be deemed capable of the following:
(1) Knowing what is being done;
(2) Making a decision of their own free will about whether to do it or not;
(3) Having the ability to explain to another party that the act has been committed against them.
(c) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 15 (fifteen) years and 20 (twenty) years.

Offence of Prostitution
29.
(a) It is an offence for any person to engage in prostitution in the Maldives, or for a Maldivian to do so outside the Maldives.
(b) It is an offence for any person in the Maldives, or for a Maldivian outside the Maldives, to cause a person to engage in prostitution, or to aid in doing so, or to participate in doing so.
(c) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term not exceeding 7 (seven) years.
(d) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (b) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 7 (seven) years and 15 (fifteen) years.

Offence of Keeping a Person for Prostitution
30.
(a) It is an offence for any person in the Maldives, or for a Maldivian outside the Maldives, to keep, maintain, or bear the expenses of a person for the purpose of prostitution.
(b) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 7 (seven) years and 15 (fifteen) years.

Offence of Bringing to or Taking from the Maldives for Prostitution
31.
(a) It is an offence to bring a person from outside the Maldives into the Maldives, or to participate in or aid in doing so, knowing that the person is coming or being brought for the purpose of prostitution.
(b) It is an offence to take a person from one island to another within the Maldives, or to participate in or aid in doing so, knowing it is for the purpose of prostitution.
(c) It is an offence to take or send a person out of the Maldives, or to participate in or aid in doing so, knowing that the person is being taken or sent for the purpose of prostitution.
(d) The penalty for the offences stated in subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 7 (seven) years and 10 (ten) years.

Offence of Using Income Derived from Prostitution
32.
(a) It is an offence for a person who procures prostitution to live on the income derived from it.
(b) It is an offence to knowingly use the income derived from another person's prostitution for one's living.
(c) It is an offence to continue living in a house or place, or part of a house or place, knowing it is a brothel, without reporting it to the relevant state authorities.
(d) The penalty for the offences stated in subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 25,000 (twenty-five thousand) and MVR 75,000 (seventy-five thousand), or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 (three) years.
(e) If it is proven to the court that any money or property was obtained from the commission of an offence stated in subsection (a) or (b), that money or property acquired from that money shall be confiscated by the state.

Offence of Establishing a Brothel
33.
(a) Establishing, maintaining, or running a brothel, or participating in any such act, is an offence.
(b) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 (five) years.

Offence of Intimidation
34.
(a) It is an offence for any person in the Maldives, or for a Maldivian outside the Maldives, to compel another person through intimidation or force to commit a sexual act with them or with another person, or to participate in or aid in doing so.
(b) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 5 (five) years and 7 (seven) years.

Offence of Blackmail
35.
(a) It is an offence to blackmail a victim of an offence of rape, sexual assault, sexual harassment, or a sexual act, or a member of their family, in connection with any of those acts after they have been committed.
(b) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 3 (three) years and 5 (five) years.

Offence of Deception
36.
(a) It is an offence for any person in the Maldives, or for a Maldivian outside the Maldives, to cause a person to commit a sexual act with them or with another person by deceiving them or by concealing the truth.
(b) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 5 (five) years and 7 (seven) years.

Offence of Causing Intoxication
37.
(a) It is an offence to administer any type of alcohol or a substance defined as a drug in Act No. 17/2011 (Narcotics Act) to a person through any means, rendering them powerless or unaware of their state, for the purpose of committing a sexual act with them, or to have another person commit a sexual act with them.
(b) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 10 (ten) years and 15 (fifteen) years.

Offence of Taking Advantage
38.
(a) It is an offence to overpower a person who has lost their mental faculties, is of unsound mind, or is physically incapable of self-defense, and commit a sexual act with them.
(b) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 10 (ten) years and 15 (fifteen) years.

Offence of Abduction
39.
(a) It is an offence, with the intent to commit any of the following acts, to abduct a person without their consent from their guardians, a relative, their spouse, or from the people they live with, and take them to another place, or keep them in another place, or confine, or restrain them:
(1) To rape; or
(2) To commit a sexual assault; or
(3) To commit sexual harassment; or
(4) To commit a sexual act; or
(5) To compel them to commit zina (fornication/adultery) with another person; or
(6) To have another person commit a sexual assault on them; or
(7) To have another person commit sexual harassment on them.
(b) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 7 (seven) years and 10 (ten) years.

Offence of Confinement
40.
(a) It is an offence to keep or hold a person in a place, or to confine them in a place in a way they cannot leave, without their consent, for the purpose of raping them or committing a sexual assault or sexual harassment against them.
(b) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 7 (seven) years and 10 (ten) years.
(c) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this Article, a person shall be deemed to have been kept in a place without their consent if the following circumstances arise:
(1) Being confined in a place; or
(2) Being held, kept, or seated in a way they cannot move; or
(3) Having no way to leave the place they are in of their own free will; or
(4) Even if there is an opportunity to leave the place, they can only do so if they agree to leave behind their clothes, or their property, or an object in their possession; or
(5) In a situation where they cannot leave the place without a certain object, being required to leave after placing that object down or leaving it behind.
(d) If, during the commission of an offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article, the only way for the person to escape is by wearing another person's clothing or using something owned by another person to cover their body, their doing so at that time shall not be grounds for any criminal or civil claim to be brought against them in relation to that act.

Offence of Forcing Participation in a Sexual Act
41.
(a) If a person forces another person to participate in a sexual act without their consent, they are committing an offence.
(b) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 3 (three) years and 5 (five) years.

Offence of Forcing to Watch a Sexual Act
42.
(a) It is an offence to force another person to watch a sexual act being committed, or to show another person a scene, photo, video, a scene from a video, a film, or a scene from a film depicting a sexual act, or to make them listen to the sound of such an act.
(b) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 1 (one) year and 3 (three) years.

Offence of Producing Pornography
43.
(a) It is an offence for a person to produce pornography.
(b) A person who disseminates, through any means, pornography produced by committing the offence stated in subsection (a), is committing an offence.
(c) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 1 (one) year and 3 (three) years.
(d) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (b) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 3 (three) years and 5 (five) years.

Offence of Causing Pornography to be Produced
44.
(a) If a person involves another person in the production of pornography without their consent, or produces pornography showing their sexual organ exposed, that person is committing an offence.
(b) A person who disseminates, through any means, pornography produced by committing the offence stated in subsection (a), is committing an offence.
(c) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 5 (five) years and 7 (seven) years.
(d) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (b) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 15 (fifteen) years and 20 (twenty) years.

Offence of Forcing the Production of Pornography
45.
(a) It is an offence to force, control, or restrain a person to make them produce pornography or to participate in the production of pornography.
(b) A person who disseminates, through any means, pornography produced by committing the offence stated in subsection (a), is committing an offence.
(c) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 7 (seven) years and 10 (ten) years.
(d) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (b) of this Article is imprisonment for a term between 20 (twenty) years and 25 (twenty-five) years.

Committing an Offence with More Than One Person
46.
If an offence stated as a crime in this Act is committed against a person by more than one person, acting together with a common intention or a common purpose, each of them shall be considered to have individually committed the offence. And, each of them can be individually given the penalty prescribed in this Act for a person who commits that offence. This is so even if the persons involved participated in the criminal act to different degrees.

Chapter Four
Registration

Register of Persons Convicted of Sexual Offences
47.
(a) A register containing the details of every person convicted of any of the offences listed below, among the offences stated in this Act, shall be written and maintained at the Family Protection Authority under the name "Register of Sexual Offenders," under the guidance of the Minister.
(1) The offence of rape stated in Article 14 of this Act.
(2) The offence of attempted rape stated in Article 15 of this Act.
(3) The offence of sexual assault stated in Article 16 of this Act.
(4) The offence of attempted sexual assault stated in Article 17 of this Act.
(5) The offence of sexual harassment stated in Article 18 of this Act.
(6) The offence of committing a sexual act with a mahram stated in Article 21 of this Act.
(7) The offence of committing a homosexual act stated in Article 24 of this Act.
(8) The offence of committing a sexual act with an animal stated in Article 25 of this Act.
(9) The offence of committing a sexual act with a corpse stated in Article 26 of this Act.
(10) The offence of committing a sexual act with a person with a disability stated in Article 28 of this Act.
(11) The offence of prostitution stated in Article 29 of this Act.
(12) The offence of keeping a person for prostitution stated in Article 30 of this Act.
(13) The offence of bringing to or taking from the Maldives for prostitution stated in Article 31 of this Act.
(14) The offence of using income derived from prostitution stated in Article 32 of this Act.
(15) The offence of establishing a brothel stated in Article 33 of this Act.
(16) The offence of blackmail stated in Article 35 of this Act.
(17) The offence of causing intoxication stated in Article 37 of this Act.
(18) The offence of taking advantage stated in Article 38 of this Act.
(19) The offence of abduction stated in Article 39 of this Act.
(20) The offence of producing pornography stated in Article 43 of this Act.
(21) The offence of forcing the production of pornography stated in Article 45 of this Act.
(b) The procedures for including the information stated in subsection (d) of this Article as information to be included in the Register of Sexual Offenders, and the procedures for amending that information, shall be determined in a regulation formulated by the Minister with reference to this Article.
(c) The Register of Sexual Offenders is not a register that can be publicly published. Notwithstanding this, it is not a matter that this Article prevents to act upon a procedure for releasing information contained in that register to another party within the scope of subsection (b) of this Article.
(d) The Register of Sexual Offenders shall include the following information:
(1) Details of the convicted person (including name, address, and Maldivian identity card number).
(2) The offence they committed.
(3) The sentence passed on them.
(4) If the sentence passed on them has been appealed, the judgment of the appellate court.
(5) The number of times they have been convicted of an offence under this Act.
(6) Whether they are currently in custody or have been released from custody.

Removal of Name from the Register
48.
(a) A case may be submitted to the court by an interested party to request the removal of a person's name from the Register of Sexual Offenders in the following circumstances.
(b) Upon the submission of a case as stated in subsection (a) of this Article, the court may, based on that submission and with consideration to the following matters, order the Minister to remove a name from the Register of Sexual Offenders:
(1) The offender is a first-time offender of such a crime; or
(2) The offence is not the offence of rape, sexual assault, sexual harassment, or a sexual act; or
(3) The offender is a minor; or
(4) The penalty imposed is the lowest level of punishment for that offence; or
(5) Being acquitted at the appeal stage.
(c) If a person serving a sentence for an offence stated in subsection (a) of Article 47 of this Act is released for any reason from a center where persons are held in custody to enforce sentences, the Ministry shall be notified of this.
(d) The procedure for giving the notification stated in subsection (c) of this Article shall be determined by the Minister in the regulation stated in subsection (b) of Article 47 of this Act.

The Register
49.
The Minister shall ensure that the Register of Sexual Offenders is established as a register to be written and maintained, and that this is carried out accordingly.

Notification of Change of Information
50.
(a) If the following information of a person whose name is included in the Register of Sexual Offenders changes, they must notify the Family Protection Authority within the following periods:
(1) If their name, address, or Maldivian identity card number changes, notify within 14 (fourteen) days.
(2) If leaving the Maldives, notify before departure.
(3) If returning to the Maldives, notify within the first 7 (seven) days after arrival.
(4) If their residential address changes, notify within 7 (seven) days of the change.
(5) If their legal guardian or custodian changes, notify within the first 7 (seven) days of the change.
(6) If they are residing at an address other than their permanent address, notify within the first 7 (seven) days of the change.
(b) If the person whose name is included in the register fails to do something they are required to do as per subsection (a) of this Article, they are committing an offence.
(c) The penalty for the offence stated in subsection (b) of this Article is a fine not exceeding MVR 5,000 (five thousand), and for each time the offence is repeated, the person shall be fined an amount resulting from multiplying the number of repetitions by MVR 5,000 (five thousand).

Chapter Five
Regarding Evidence

Mandating the Use of a Rape Evidence Kit
50-1.
(a) In cases where an offence such as those stated in Articles 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21(b), 24(b), 28, and 38 of this Act is suspected to have been committed, it is mandatory to collect samples from the victim's body and clothing and to conduct a forensic analysis of those samples.
(b) The samples taken from the body and clothing of the victim of an offence stated in subsection (a) of this Article and the forensic analysis of those samples shall be an analysis conducted on samples collected with the victim's consent, using a "Rape Evidence Kit" specialized for forensic analysis of sexual offences.
(c) The "Rape Evidence Kit" specialized for forensic analysis of sexual offences must contain, at a minimum, the tools needed to collect and preserve the following samples:
(1) Hair from the head and from the area around the genitals and anus;
(2) Blood and urine;
(3) Samples taken from the victim's clothing;
(4) Samples from the fingernails and from under the fingernails;
(5) Samples from the genital and anal areas;
(6) Samples from the mouth; and
(7) Samples from the exterior of the body.
(d) Regulations stating the procedures for obtaining the victim's consent for collecting samples from their body and clothing and for the forensic analysis of those samples under subsection (b) of this Article, the procedures for using the Rape Evidence Kit to collect samples from child and adult victims, and the procedures for collecting and safely storing such samples at the center, shall be made and published by the Minister responsible for health matters, in consultation with the Maldives Police Service, the Family Protection Authority, and the Child and Family Protection Service, within 60 (sixty) days from the date this Act comes into force.

Provision of Rape Evidence Kits
50-2.
(a) The government shall make arrangements for Rape Evidence Kits to be available at government health service centers and hospitals.
(b) No fee shall be charged for taking samples using a Rape Evidence Kit at a government health service facility.
(c) The government must arrange and complete the provision of Rape Evidence Kits as stated in subsection (a) of this Article within 6 (six) months of this Act coming into force.

Sample Collection by Trained Persons
50-3.
(a) Every government-run health center in the Maldives and every hospital operating in the Maldives must have a doctor, nurse, or healthcare assistant who is trained in how to use a Rape Evidence Kit. Furthermore, these individuals must also be trained in the "victim-centered and trauma-informed" approach.
(b) The work of collecting samples using a Rape Evidence Kit must be done by persons who have received the training stated in subsection (a) of this Article.
(c) Upon the expiration of 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act, the Family Protection Authority must ensure that every government-run health center in the Maldives and every hospital operating in the Maldives has a doctor, nurse, or healthcare assistant with the training specified in subsection (a) of this Article. This must be monitored and maintained every 6 (six) months.
(d) The Family Protection Authority shall check whether every government-run health center and every hospital operating in the Maldives has a trained doctor, nurse, or healthcare assistant as stated in subsection (a) of this Article, and shall prepare a related report once a year. This report shall be sent by the Family Protection Authority to the People's Majlis.

Transporting Samples to the Investigating Body
50-4.
Since a sample collected using a Rape Evidence Kit is evidence as stated in numbers (1) and (3) of subsection (a) of Article 52 of this Act, the Maldives Police Service shall, within 30 (thirty) days of this Act coming into force, formulate the procedure for transporting the sample from the center where it was collected using the Rape Evidence Kit to the investigating body.

Protection for Rape Victims from Pregnancy
50-5.
(a) In cases where an offence such as those stated in Articles 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21(b), 28, and 38 of this Act is suspected to have been committed, and a healthcare doctor notes that the victim could become pregnant or is pregnant, the necessary treatment to prevent pregnancy must be provided by the healthcare providing center to the victim, with their consent.
(b) The treatment referred to in subsection (a) of this Article must be treatment provided under the direct supervision of a doctor.
(c) A regulation stating the procedures related to providing the treatment mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be made and published by the Minister responsible for health matters within 3 (three) months from the date this Act comes into force.

Testing for Sexually Transmitted Diseases
50-6.
(a) In cases where an offence such as those stated in Articles 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21(b), 24(b), 28, and 38 of this Act is suspected to have been committed, the healthcare providing center must provide the victim with information regarding testing for sexually transmitted diseases. And if the victim requests testing for such diseases at a healthcare providing center, that center must arrange for such tests to be conducted.
(b) Centers that do not have arrangements for testing for sexually transmitted diseases must take the necessary samples for such tests and send the victim's sample to a center where arrangements for such tests are in place, and proceed with the testing.
(c) A regulation stating the procedures related to conducting the tests that must be done by healthcare service centers under subsection (a) of this Article shall be made and published by the Minister responsible for health matters within 3 (three) months from the date this Act comes into force.

Standard of Proof
51.
Except in a trial related to an offence stated in Article 52 of this Act, every other offence stated in this Act shall be proven at the standard of evidentiary weight applied in other criminal cases, for the purpose of Article 51(a) of the Constitution. And, the type of evidence accepted in such a case shall also be the type of evidence accepted in other criminal cases.

Evidence that can be used in favor of the Victim
52.
(a) Notwithstanding that another law may state otherwise regarding the standard of evidence required to prove a criminal offence or the type of evidence admissible in court, for the purpose of this Act, the following types of evidence shall be evidence that can be used in favor of the victim to prove to the court, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the alleged act occurred, as stated in Article 51(a) of the Constitution, for the purpose of proving the offence of rape, sexual assault, or sexual harassment:
(1) Results shown by scientific analyses.
(2) Testimony of eyewitnesses.
(3) Evidence obtained from forensic signs and analyses.
(4) A statement given by any of the following parties based on what the victim has told them, without there being a reason to believe it is a fabrication or a newly invented untrue story, and where not too long a period has passed between the incident and the telling of the story, and not many days have passed between the incident: the victim's parents, or spouse, or a close relative, or a friend, or a doctor, or a healthcare assistant, or a psychologist, or a psychiatrist, or a police officer investigating the case.
(5) The statement given by the victim as to how the events occurred or how the incident transpired.
(6) The correlation between what the victim describes and the physical injuries noted medically and the findings of forensic analyses.
(7) Physical evidence.
(b) If at least 5 (five) types of evidence from among the types of evidence stated in subsection (a) of this Article exist, and if a situation described in Article 53 of this Act does not arise, this Act accepts that evidence as sufficient to prove the alleged act to the court beyond a reasonable doubt, as stated in Article 51(a) of the Constitution.

Evidence that can be used against the Victim
53.
Notwithstanding Article 52 of this Act, the accused party proving that a fundamental point within the description of how the event transpired is not supported independently or by witness testimony can be evidence used to negate the accusation or charge related to the offence of rape, sexual assault, or sexual harassment.

Chapter Six
Regarding Obtaining Compensation

Obtaining Compensation for Injury
54.
The victim has the right under this Act to seek the following two main types of compensation from the person who inflicted the injury, for the harm suffered by the victim as a direct result of the injury sustained due to rape, sexual assault, or sexual harassment.
(a) Economic compensation.
(b) Non-economic compensation.

Economic Compensation
55.
Under Article 54(a) of this Act, economic compensation can be awarded for expenses incurred to seek medical treatment to recover from the harm suffered by the victim due to rape, sexual assault, or sexual harassment, or expenses to be incurred for ongoing medical treatment, or expenses to be incurred for future medical treatment in relation to the matter.

Non-Economic Compensation
56.
Under Article 54(b) of this Act, the following types of compensation can be awarded.
(a) Compensation for the damage sustained to the victim's body as a direct result of the injury from rape, sexual assault, or sexual harassment.
(b) Compensation for the damage sustained from the loss of an organ of the victim as a direct result of the injury from rape, sexual assault, or sexual harassment.
(c) Compensation for the damage sustained from the non-functioning of an organ of the victim as a direct result of the injury from rape, sexual assault, or sexual harassment.
(d) Compensation for the hindrance to living life as before due to the non-functioning or loss of an organ of the victim as a direct result of the injury from rape, sexual assault, or sexual harassment.
(e) If the victim has had to experience any pain or suffering in their life after the injury as a direct result of the injury from rape, sexual assault, or sexual harassment, compensation for that.
(f) Compensation for the damage sustained due to obstacles in obtaining employment for the victim as a direct result of the injury from rape, sexual assault, or sexual harassment.
(g) Costs incurred for prosecuting the case.

Amount of Compensation Awardable
57.
(a) When awarding compensation under this Act, based on the circumstances of the case, the court shall determine what type of compensation and how much will be awarded to the victim in relation to the injury sustained from rape, sexual assault, or sexual harassment, with reference to this Article and in accordance with standards set by the court in relation to the matter.
(b) To maintain justice and fairness in the case, when awarding compensation for matters for which compensation can be awarded under this Act, the court may decide in one of the following ways:
(1) Awarding compensation for all matters for which compensation was requested.
(2) Awarding compensation for some matters determined by the court from among the matters for which compensation was requested.
(3) If the case involves a situation similar to a previous case where compensation was awarded, awarding compensation similar to that awarded in the previous situation.

Special Responsibility of Health Service Providers
57-1.
(a) If a victim of a suspected offence as stated in this Act comes to a health service facility to seek services, that center must immediately inform the Maldives Police Service and the Social Service Department.
(b) In a case where an offence as stated in Articles 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21(b), 24(b), 28, and 38 of this Act is suspected to have been committed, if the victim comes to a health service facility to seek services, that facility must collect the sample mentioned in Article 50-1 of this Act as soon as possible, as stated in this Act.
(c) Within 6 (six) months of this Act coming into force, the Minister responsible for health matters shall make and publish a procedure on how health service providers should act towards a victim of a suspected offence as stated in this Act who comes to a health service facility to seek services.

Special Responsibility to be Fulfilled by the Police in Relation to the Victim
57-2.
(a) If a case of a suspected offence as stated in Articles 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21(b), 24(b), 28, and 38 of this Act is reported to the police, the Maldives Police Service must inform the Social Service Department of that information as soon as the victim is found by the police.
(b) In addition to acting as stated in subsection (a) of this Article, the victim must be taken to a health service facility with their consent.
(c) If a case of a suspected offence as stated in this Act is reported to the police, the Maldives Police Service shall, within 3 (three) months of this Act coming into force, create a procedure that states how to act towards the victim in such a case and the matters to be completed in the investigation of that case.
(d) If it comes to the knowledge of the Maldives Police Service that a police officer is suspected of having violated a procedure that police must follow in a case of an offence stated in this Act, that case must be investigated as per Act No. 34/2020 (Maldives Police Service Act). And after deciding on a matter submitted in this way, information on the decision must be submitted to the independent institution responsible for investigating police matters within 24 (twenty-four) hours from the time the decision is made.

Chapter Seven
Some General Principles

Holding Court Hearings in Private
58.
(a) Among the offences stated in this Act, the trial hearing related to an offence whose elements include committing a sexual act without consent shall not be conducted as a public hearing. And, such trial hearings must be held as private hearings in a manner that does not reveal the identity of the victim.
(b) The parties who can enter a private trial hearing as stated in subsection (a) of this Article shall be determined by a regulation pre-published by the court where the case is held.

Not Disclosing the Details of the Victim of a Sexual Offence
59.
(a) This Act does not permit the disclosure, in any media outlet, of any information that could identify the victim when reporting or publishing stories of an investigation or trial of an offence of rape, sexual assault, or sexual harassment in any media outlet.
(b) The Minister has the power to submit to the court the case of a party who acts contrary to the principle stated in subsection (a) of this Article. And when such an act is proven, the court has the power to fine that party an amount between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 15,000 (fifteen thousand).

Protection Order
60.
If an investigation is ongoing or a trial is being conducted for a suspected offence defined as a crime in this Act, and the person suspected of the crime is not being held in custody, the court may, until the conclusion of the trial related to the suspected offence, issue an order against them not to do the following things or any specific thing or things among them, in relation to the victim:
(a) Obstructing entry to or exit from the victim's home, workplace, place of employment, place of education, or any other place they commonly visit; or
(b) Following the victim, going to places they go, stopping them, harassing them, or verbally abusing them; or
(c) Entering or being in a house where the victim lives or a place where they are, except with the victim's explicit and clear consent; or
(d) Having any communication with the victim via phone, letter, email, SMS, or any other means; or
(e) Committing any physical or sexual abuse against the victim; or
(f) Threatening to commit any physical or sexual abuse against the victim; or
(g) Causing any damage to any of the victim's property, or threatening to cause such damage; or
(h) Committing any act to intimidate, humiliate, or cause psychological harm to the victim, or threatening to commit such an act; or
(i) Having another person, on behalf of the person against whom the order is issued, do any act which they are ordered not to do.

Review of the Act
61.
(a) This Act is a law that the Minister must review once every 5 (five) years from the date this Act comes into force.
(b) It is the responsibility of the government to submit a relevant bill to the People's Majlis to make any necessary amendments to this Act after reviewing it as stated in subsection (a) of this Article.

Immunity from Liability
62.
A person who, without malicious intent, with the intention of enforcing this Act, and without the intention of harming a particular person, does something stated in this Act as it is stated, shall not bear any civil or criminal liability for an act they committed or an omission they made.

Punishment for Children between 16 and 18 Years of Age
63.
If a child between the ages of 16 (sixteen) and 18 (eighteen) commits the offence of rape, sexual assault, sexual harassment, or a sexual act as stated in this Act, that child shall be given two-thirds of the punishment prescribed for that offence. And if a person who has completed 18 (eighteen) years of age and is over 18 (eighteen) years of age commits an offence stated in this Act, that person shall be given the full punishment prescribed for that offence, unless stated otherwise in this Act.

Providing Counseling
64.
To alleviate any psychological difficulty that may be faced by a victim of an offence stated in this Act, and to provide the counseling needed to live as a responsible citizen, the Family Protection Authority shall arrange for it at its own expense, through a procedure arranged by the Authority, via a place or person designated by the Authority.

Arranging for Expenses
65.
When caring for a victim of an offence stated in this Act, if the parents or guardian require immediate financial assistance, that assistance shall be provided by the Family Protection Authority according to principles determined by the government.

Making and Implementing Regulations
66.
(a) Unless otherwise stated in another article of this Act, except for a regulation that must be made and implemented by a relevant court, other regulations to be made under this Act shall be made and implemented by the Minister.
(b) Regulations that must be made and implemented by a court under this Act shall be made by the Department of Judicial Administration in consultation with the courts. For the purpose of this Act, all courts shall implement the same regulation made under this Act.
(c) The regulations that must be made and implemented under this Article shall be made and publicly announced within 3 (three) months of this Act coming into force.

Commencement of the Act
67.
This Act shall come into force on the day that completes 6 (six) months from the date this Act is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

Repeal
68.
Upon the commencement of this Act, in place of any other law or regulation that exists concerning an offence stated in this Act, the principles stated in this Act shall apply in relation to that offence.

Definitions
69.
Unless otherwise stated in this Act, the following phrases and words shall have the meanings given below in relation to those phrases and words:
(a) "Prostitution" refers to the act of a person offering themselves to engage in a sexual act in exchange for money or something that can be valued in money or a deed. Or the act of doing such a thing.
(b) "Brothel" refers to any place, whether it be a building or otherwise, prepared or used for the business of prostitution.
(c) "Blackmail" refers to instructing a person to do a particular thing against their will, and threatening to commit an act that would cause them harm, injury, or humiliation if they do not do it. Or, not reporting a crime committed by a person to the appropriate authority, and using the information of that matter to gain benefits from them against their will or continuing to gain benefits.
(d) "Harm" (Aniys) refers to causing physical or material damage or injury to a person's life or body. Or to cause detriment to mental well-being.
(e) "Minister" refers to the Minister entrusted with the responsibility of reforming, protecting, and implementing women's roles and family relations at the national level.
(f) "Ministry" refers to the Ministry where the Minister entrusted with the responsibility of reforming, protecting, and implementing women's roles and family relations at the national level is the most senior official.
(g) "A person" refers to, for the purpose of this Act, notwithstanding what is stated otherwise in another law, boys and girls between the ages of 16 (sixteen) and 18 (eighteen). And every male and female who has completed 18 (eighteen) years of age and is over 18 (eighteen) years of age. And it includes Maldivian citizens and foreigners in the Maldives.
(h) "Family Protection Authority" refers to the national body that operates under the supervision of the Minister or the Ministry to perform the responsibility of reforming, protecting, and implementing family relations at the national level.
(i) "Register" refers to the Register of Sexual Offenders.
(j) "Mental impairment" refers to any condition or state that affects a person's sound judgment due to mental illness or a deficiency in mental health, which causes obstacles in understanding, recognizing, and remembering things.
(k) "Zina (fornication/adultery)" refers to the penetration, however slight, of a man's penis into a woman's vagina between two persons who are not married to each other.
(l) "Animal" refers to, except for humans, every living creature that lives on land or in the sea.
(m) "Sexual offenders" refers to every person whose name is required to be included in the Register of Sexual Offenders.
(n) "Sexual organ" refers to, for a male, his penis. For a female, her vagina and breasts. In addition, in the context of the act of the offence of rape, or the act of the offence of sexual harassment, or the act of the offence of sexual assault stated in this Act, the anus of a male or a female is also included in the meaning of a sexual organ.
(o) "Non-sexual organ" refers to a person's anus or mouth.
(p) "Dangerous weapon" refers to items that, if used as a weapon, could cause damage to a person's property or dangerous harm to their life or body, including explosives, flammable items, items that can be used as weapons, and other such items.
(1) Any type of knife;
(2) Machete and dagger;
(3) Razor blade, cutter, and cutter blade;
(4) Billhook, crowbar, and large adze;
(5) Sharpened or pointed iron, rod, wood, and other such items;
(6) Any other sharp object that can be used to injure people.
(q) "Pornography" refers to photos and films showing images of a sexual organ or organs, audio and stories depicting sexual relations, films and photos showing scenes of sexual intercourse, and items such as CDs, diskettes, tapes on which such scenes, audio, and stories are recorded, and items made to depict sexual organs for the purpose of sexual intercourse. Scientific books and materials authorized for educational purposes permitted by law and regulations are not included in this definition.
(r) "Social Service Department" refers to the agency operating under the supervision of the Minister or Ministry with the responsibility of providing psychosocial support to victims of abuse.
(s) "Health service providers" refers to government health service centers, government hospitals operating in the Maldives, and private hospitals.
(t) "Victim-centered approach" refers to the approach related to providing the necessary treatment and services to the victim in a way that gives special attention systematically to the needs and concerns of the victim in all circumstances, with compassion, without causing further harm or further victimization.
(u) "Trauma-informed approach" refers to the approach related to recognizing the physical, psychological, and social effects of the abuse suffered by the victim and providing them with the necessary treatment and assistance.
