Social Protection Act

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This is the law that outlines all the principles for providing assistance determined by the government as social protection to the citizens of the Maldives.
(b) This law shall be cited as the "Social Protection Act."

Purpose

    The purpose of this law is to facilitate the following:
    (a) To provide social protection to those in difficult circumstances among the populace from the vulnerabilities of poverty.
    (b) To reduce the gap between the rich and the poor.
    (c) To provide all national resources to the citizens in the most equitable way possible.
    (d) To provide assistance to citizens who lack the means to fulfill their basic needs.

Types of Social Protection Assistance

    The various types of assistance provided by the government as social protection to people in difficult circumstances are listed below:
    (a) Financial assistance for single mothers or fathers raising children.
    (b) Assistance for individuals with no one to care for them.
    (c) Assistance for persons with mental illness.
    (d) Assistance for children being cared for by someone other than their parents, and for the person caring for them, in the absence of parental support.
    (e) Assistance for electricity bill payments.
    (f) Assistance for food.
    (g) Assistance for water bill payments.
    (h) Housing assistance.
    (i) Assistance provided as protection in an emergency situation.
    (j) Assistance to be given, if necessary, due to a difficult situation faced by individuals running small or medium-sized businesses in various industrial sectors.
    (k) Assistance for students.

Parties Who Can Apply for Social Protection Assistance

    The assistance determined by the government as social protection can be provided upon application by one of the following parties, in accordance with the regulations made under this law:
    (a) The person in need of assistance; or
    (b) A family member of the person in need of assistance; or
    (c) The guardian of the person in need of assistance; or
    (d) A government authority; or
    (e) A caregiver of the person in need of assistance.

Applying for Social Protection Assistance

5.
(a) When applying for social protection assistance, one party may apply for more than one type of assistance in a single application.
(b) If a person applies for social protection assistance as per (a) of this article, the decision to provide assistance shall be made in accordance with the established regulations for that purpose.
(c) The regulations made for the purpose of this article must include the following:
(1) The maximum amount of assistance a person can receive in any calendar month.
(2) The maximum amount receivable for each type of assistance specified in Article 3 of this law in any calendar month.
(3) The maximum amount of assistance a person can receive in any calendar year.
(d) The regulations made under this law must specify the conditions that must be met to be eligible for the assistance outlined in Article 3 of this law.

Provision of Assistance

6.
(a) When an application is submitted for any of the assistance determined by the government as social protection, assistance must be provided to those who meet the conditions set for receiving aid, in accordance with the principles stated in the regulations made under this law.
(b) When applying to receive assistance under this law, all information specified in the regulations made under this law must be submitted to the agency providing the assistance. This includes the following information:
(1) Information regarding income.
(2) If there is a bank account, information about that account and the bank statements for the last 3 (three) months.
(3) Land, property, and other assets under the ownership of the person receiving the assistance.

Obligations of the Recipient of Assistance

7.
(a) Recipients of assistance must inform the assisting agency of any changes to their living situation or personal information once a year, in the manner prescribed by the regulations made under this law.
(b) Failure to comply with the statement in section (a) of this article is an offense.
(c) It is a requirement under this law for the applicant to fully and truthfully disclose or state all information when applying for assistance.
(d) If it is noted that any information submitted when applying for or while receiving assistance is incorrect, false, or provided to mislead, the Minister has the authority to deem it a violation of this law and to not proceed with the application and declare it void.
(e) If it is noted that a person receiving assistance has submitted information that is incorrect, false, or provided to mislead, the Minister has the authority to deem it a violation of this law and to stop providing the assistance.

Cessation of Social Protection Assistance

    If a condition that led to the provision of assistance to a person receiving social protection aid under this law is no longer met due to a change in that person's circumstances, the Minister must stop the assistance being provided to that person.

Provision of Information to the Assisting Agency by Other Authorities

9.
(a) If a government authority becomes aware of a change in the status or information of a person receiving assistance, it must inform the assisting agency.
(b) If the assisting agency requests information about a recipient of assistance from another state institution or a private party, that information must be provided.

Maintaining Personal Privacy and Confidentiality

10.
(a) The government agency providing assistance under this law must keep the personal, health, and other information of the recipient confidential, secure, and maintained.
(b) No employee of the assisting agency shall disclose any document prepared concerning a person receiving assistance for the purpose of providing aid under this law, or any information obtained, sought, or submitted by any person applying for assistance, except as provided in subsection (c) of this article.
(c) The disclosure of the following information by an employee of the assisting agency shall not be considered a violation of subsection (b) of this article:
(1) Information that is publicly available.
(2) Information for which written consent for disclosure has been given by its owner.
(3) Information disclosed in a civil trial conducted under this law or another law.
(4) Information disclosed in a criminal trial conducted under this law or another law.
(5) Information disclosed by an employee involved in the implementation of this law and other laws concerning assistance to another such employee for the purpose of performing their duties.
(6) Information disclosed to seek advice in interpreting this law and other laws related to assistance.
(7) Information disclosed to prevent a criminal offense or for the investigation of such an offense.
(8) Information disclosed for the prevention or investigation of a criminal offense under an agreement between the Government of Maldives and another government.
(9) Information disclosed for inclusion in government statistics in a manner that does not identify the person to whom the information pertains.
(d) Every employee of the assisting agency must sign a pledge to maintain the confidentiality related to their employment before commencing their duties at the agency.

Inclusion of Funds in the State Budget

    The funds required to provide social protection assistance under this law and for other administrative matters shall be included in the state budget for each fiscal year.

Offenses and Penalties

12.
(a) Any act prohibited by this law is an offense. Unless otherwise specified in this law, if a person is convicted in court of an offense stated in this law, the penalty shall be a fine of between MVR 1,000 (one thousand) and MVR 2,000 (two thousand), or house arrest for a period of 1 (one) month to 3 (three) months.
(b) The penalty for a person convicted in court of repeating an offense stated in this law is a fine of between MVR 3,000 (three thousand) and MVR 8,000 (eight thousand), or house arrest for a period of 3 (three) months to 6 (six) months.
(c) The penalty for a person convicted in court of disclosing information in violation of Article 10 of this law is a fine of between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 10,000 (ten thousand).

Currently Received Assistance

13.
(a) The commencement of this law shall not cause the interruption of any assistance being received by persons who were previously receiving aid.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this article, persons currently receiving assistance must apply for it in accordance with Article 5 of this law within a maximum of 12 (twelve) months from the date this law comes into effect.
(c) If an application for assistance is not submitted as stated in subsection (b) of this article, the assistance being received by that person will be discontinued.
(d) Assistance that has been discontinued in this manner will resume from the date of a new application submitted in accordance with this law.

Making and Implementing Regulations

14.
(a) The regulations required for the implementation of this law shall be made and enforced by the National Social Protection Agency upon the advice of the Minister.[1]
(b) These regulations shall be made and published in the Government Gazette within 3 (three) months from the date this law comes into effect.

Commencement of this Law

    This law shall come into force 6 (six) months after it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette.

Definitions of Words and Phrases

    Unless stated otherwise in this law, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given below.
    (a) "Minister" refers to the Minister of the Ministry entrusted with the responsibility of formulating all social protection policies and overseeing matters related to social protection.
    (b) "Income" refers to money and benefits received regularly (monthly) or a lump sum financial benefit received by a person.
    (c) "Assisting Agency" refers to the National Social Protection Agency or an institution designated by the government to provide social protection assistance.[1]
    (d) "Difficult circumstance" refers to the fulfillment of the conditions specified in the regulations made under this law for receiving assistance under each of the categories of aid mentioned in Article 3 of this law.
    (e) "Emergency situation" refers to a life-threatening situation where a person is unable to save themselves on their own or by any other means.


