Sole Proprietorship Act
Chapter One
Introduction

1. Introduction and Name

(a) This is the Act to provide for the registration of sole proprietorships in the Maldives and to specify the procedures thereof.

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Sole Proprietorship Act".

2. Non-Applicability of the Act

This Act shall not apply to the following parties:

(a) State institutions;

(b) An authority established by law;

(c) A company formed under Law No. 10/96 (Maldivian Companies Act);

(d) A partnership formed under Law No. 13/2011 (Partnership Act);

(e) An association formed under Law No. 1/2003 (Associations Act);

(f) A cooperative society formed under Law No. 3/2007 (Co-operative Societies Act).

3. Sole Proprietorship and Proprietor

(a) For the purpose of this Act, "Sole Proprietorship" refers to a business registered and carried on under a specific name by a sole proprietor in accordance with this Act, by an individual who wishes to carry on a business in the Maldives.

(b) For the purpose of this Act, "Proprietor of the Sole Proprietorship" or "Proprietor" refers to the person in whose name a sole proprietorship is registered.

4. Consequence of Registering a Sole Proprietorship

The consequence of registering a sole proprietorship is that the business and its proprietor are not separate. This means:

(a) The capital of the business shall be solely created by the proprietor; and

(b) The proprietor of the business shall be the owner of all property of the business; and

(c) The profit generated by the business shall belong to the proprietor; and

(d) The loss incurred by the business shall be borne by the proprietor; and

(e) The proprietor shall be liable for the debts of the business; and

(f) The proprietor shall be responsible for all business transactions and all matters conducted by the business.
Chapter Two
Registration

5. Registrar

In this Act, the Registrar refers to the "Registrar of Businesses" as specified in the relevant law relating to business registration. The powers and discretions of the Registrar of Businesses as specified in that law shall also be vested in him in carrying out the responsibilities specified in this Act.

6. Registration of a Sole Proprietorship

(a) A person wishing to carry on a business in the Maldives, if not a person wishing to carry on a business by forming a company, a partnership or a co-operative society, shall, before commencing the business he wishes to carry on, apply to the Registrar for the registration of a sole proprietorship in his name under this Act.

(b) Under this Act, only one sole proprietorship may be registered in the name of one person.

(c) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of this section, this Act does not preclude a person who registers a sole proprietorship under this Act from becoming a shareholder of a company, a partner of a partnership or a member of a co-operative society under the relevant laws.

7. Application for Registration

(a) An application for the registration of a sole proprietorship under this Act shall be submitted to the Registrar through the relevant form issued by the Ministry in accordance with the regulation made under this Act.

(b) The following information shall be submitted when applying for the registration of a sole proprietorship under subsection (a) of this section:

(1) The proposed name of the business;

(2) The address at which the business is to be registered;

(3) The name, address and identity card number of the proprietor of the business;

(5) The principal place where the business will be carried on;

(7) If the proprietor of the business appoints another person to be responsible for the management of the business, the name, address and identity card number of that person;

(9) Additional information as may be determined by the Registrar in the regulation made under this Act.

8. Granting of Registration

(a) Where any person applies to the Registrar for the registration of a sole proprietorship under Section 7 of this Act, the Registrar shall, after examining the matters to be examined in relation to such application, if the application fulfills the conditions specified in this Act, register the business and include it in the register specified in Section 29 of this Act.

(b) A sole proprietorship shall be registered under this Act for a period of 10 (ten) years.

(c) If a sole proprietorship is registered to any person in accordance with subsection (a) of this section, the Registrar shall issue a certificate of registration of the business to the proprietor of the business.

9. Not Deemed as Fulfillment of Requirements of Other Laws

The registration of a sole proprietorship or the renewal of the registration of a business under this Act shall not be a reason to believe that the requirements which the proprietor or his employee is required to fulfill in relation to the business under any other law have been fulfilled. This means that if another law applies to the business, it shall not be deemed under this Act that the requirements to be fulfilled under that law have been fulfilled.

10. Discretion to Refuse Registration

(a) If the Registrar is satisfied, based on reasonable evidence, that any of the following circumstances may arise, the Registrar has the discretion to refuse to register a sole proprietorship:

(1) That the business may be used to carry out an unlawful act or acts;

(2) That the business is considered to pose a danger to the public interest.

(b) If the Registrar decides to refuse to register a sole proprietorship under subsection (a) of this section, the Registrar shall inform the person who applied for the registration of the business of the reason for such decision.

11. Renewal of Registration

(a) Persons who wish to continue the business after the expiry of the period for which a sole proprietorship is registered under this Act shall, within 1 (one) year before the expiry of that period, apply for the renewal of the registration of the business in the manner prescribed in the regulation made under this Act.

(b) If any person applies for the renewal of the registration of a sole proprietorship under subsection (a) of this section, the registration of that business shall be renewed for a further period of 10 (ten) years in the manner prescribed in the regulation made under this Act.

(c) The Registrar shall renew the registration of sole proprietorships applying for renewal in accordance with this Act before the expiry of the registration period then issued to the business.

(d) The procedures for renewing the registration of a sole proprietorship in accordance with this section shall be specified in the regulation made under this Act.

12. Revocation of Registration

(a) In any of the following circumstances, the Registrar shall have the discretion to revoke the registration of a sole proprietorship registered under this Act:

(1) The Registrar is satisfied, based on reasonable evidence, that the business is being used to carry out an unlawful act or acts;

(2) The Registrar is satisfied, based on reasonable evidence, that the business is being carried on for the purpose of endangering the public interest.

(3) The Registrar is satisfied, based on reasonable evidence, that the business is being carried on for the purpose of directly or indirectly benefiting a foreign party;

(4) A period of 1 (one) year has elapsed from the date specified in the regulation made under this Act for the submission of the information specified in Section 26-1 (a) of this Act.

(b) If the Registrar decides to revoke the registration of a sole proprietorship under subsection (a) of this section, he shall notify the proprietor of the business of the fact. And the registration of that business shall be revoked and the business shall be removed from the register specified in Section 29 of this Act.

(c) The Registrar shall make public the information of the sole proprietorship whose registration is revoked under this section.
Chapter Three
Conduct of Business

13. Commencement of Business

The date of commencement of a sole proprietorship shall be the date stated in the certificate of registration issued by the Registrar under Section 8 of this Act.

14. Not to Conduct Business Until Certificate is Received

No person shall carry on a sole proprietorship until after receiving the certificate of registration issued by the Registrar under Section 8 of this Act.

15. Appointment of a Person Responsible for the Management of the Business

(a) If the proprietor of a sole proprietorship does not ordinarily reside in the Maldives, the proprietor of the business may appoint another person who fulfills the conditions specified in subsection (d) of this section to be responsible for the management of the business.

(b) If the proprietor of a sole proprietorship appoints a person to be responsible for the management of the business after the registration of the business, the proprietor of the business shall notify the Registrar of the fact within a maximum of 30 (thirty) days from the date of such appointment.

(c) Notwithstanding the appointment of a person by the proprietor of a sole proprietorship to be responsible for the management of the business under subsection (a) of this section, the proprietor of the business shall not be exempt from the liability for the transactions of the business, the debts of the business, and the performance of other responsibilities of the business.

(d) A person appointed to be responsible for the management of the business on behalf of the proprietor of the business under subsection (a) of this section shall fulfill the following conditions:

(1) Be a Maldivian citizen of 18 (eighteen) years of age;

(2) Be a person residing in the Maldives.

16. Seal of the Sole Proprietorship

(a) If a sole proprietorship wishes to use a specific seal, the proprietor of the business shall apply to the Registrar for the registration of the seal in the manner prescribed in the regulation made under this Act.

(b) No person shall use a seal in a business except after registration under this Act and the regulation made under this Act.
Chapter Four
Business Name

17. Use of Business Name

No sole proprietorship shall carry on business under any name other than the name registered under this Act.

18. Names that Cannot be Registered

If the name submitted under Section 7 of this Act as the name of the business to be carried on by a person applying for the registration of a sole proprietorship under this Act is a name that cannot be registered as specified in the relevant law relating to business registration, the Registrar shall have the discretion to refuse to register the name. Or if a sole proprietorship registered under this Act requests to change the business name to a name that cannot be registered as specified in the relevant law relating to business registration, the Registrar shall have the discretion not to change the business name of that business.

19. Application to Change Name

(a) The proprietor of a sole proprietorship registered under this Act may apply to the Registrar in the manner prescribed in the regulation made under this Act to change the name of the business.

(b) In dealing with an application submitted under subsection (a) of this section, the Registrar shall follow the procedures specified in Section 18 of this Act.

20. Order to Change Name

(a) If the name of a sole proprietorship registered under this Act, or the name submitted under Section 7 of this Act as the business name of a business for which registration is sought under this Act, is a name that cannot be registered as specified in the relevant law relating to business registration, the Registrar shall have the discretion to order the proprietor of the business to change the name.

(b) If the Registrar orders the proprietor of a business to change the name of the business under subsection (a) of this section, the name shall be changed within 1 (one) month from the date of such order.

(c) If the Registrar orders the proprietor of a business to change the name of a sole proprietorship under subsection (a) of this section, and if that person fails to comply with the Registrar's order within the period given for changing the name under subsection (b) of this section, the Registrar shall have the discretion to revoke the registration issued to that person.

21. Reservation of Name

The Registrar shall determine in the regulation made under this Act the procedures for reserving a name to be used in a sole proprietorship.
Chapter Five
Cessation of Business

22. Cessation of Business

(a) If a sole proprietorship registered under this Act ceases for any reason, the proprietor of the business shall notify the Registrar of the fact within 14 (fourteen) days of the cessation of the business.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, this does not prevent the proprietor of a sole proprietorship registered under this Act from giving prior notice to the Registrar of his intention to cease the business.

(c) If the proprietor of the business gives prior notice to the Registrar of his intention to cease the business in accordance with subsection (b) of this section, he shall state in the notice a date on which he intends to cease the business.

(d) If the Registrar receives a notice under subsection (a) or (c) of this section, he shall revoke the registration of the business and remove the business from the register specified in Section 29 of this Act.

(e) If the Registrar is satisfied, based on reasonable evidence, that a sole proprietorship registered under this Act has ceased, he may give at least 1 (one) month's notice to that person to confirm the fact, and if the proprietor of a business does not deny the fact within the period of the notice, the Registrar shall have the discretion to revoke the registration of the business and remove the business from the register specified in Section 29 of this Act.

(f) The Registrar shall make public the information of the sole proprietorship whose registration is revoked under this section.

23. Certificate Deemed to be Invalid with Registration

If the Registrar revokes the registration of a sole proprietorship under any section of this Act, the certificate issued to that person under Section 8 of this Act shall also be deemed to be invalid.

24. Termination of Business

A sole proprietorship shall be deemed to have terminated upon the occurrence of any of the following circumstances:

(a) The expiry of the period for which the business was registered;

(b) The revocation of the registration of the business;

(c) The death of the proprietor of the business.

25. Continuation of Business Name

Notwithstanding Section 24 (c) of this Act, in the event of the termination of a sole proprietorship due to the death of the proprietor, the name of the business shall not be registered to another party until the Maldivian Sharia Court has determined the matter of the deceased proprietor's assets.

26. Not Exempt from Liability Even if Business is Terminated

Even if a sole proprietorship is terminated in a situation specified in Section 24 of this Act, the proprietor of the business shall not be exempt from the liability for the transactions made during the period of the business, the debts incurred during the period of the business, and the performance of other responsibilities.

26-1. Information to be Submitted Annually

(a) For the purpose of ascertaining the progress of businesses registered under this Act, the information determined in the regulation made under this Act to be obtained shall be submitted to the Ministry annually within the period specified in that regulation.

(b) If the information specified in subsection (a) of this section is submitted after the period specified in the regulation made under this Act, the information shall be accepted only with a fine of MVR 500/- (five hundred).

26-2. Change of Proprietor of the Business

(a) If it is desired to change the proprietor of the business after the registration of the sole proprietorship, the person who registered the business shall apply to the Registrar to change the proprietor of the business with the information specified in the regulation made under this Act.

(b) Upon changing the proprietor of the business under subsection (a) of this section, a certificate shall be issued showing the change to the registration of the sole proprietorship.

26-3. Consequence of Changing the Proprietor of the Business

Changing the proprietor of the business in accordance with Section 26-2 of this Act shall not affect the rights or obligations of the person who registered the business, nor shall it exempt the person from the liability for the profit and loss arising from the transactions made by the person in the name of the sole proprietorship up to the date of issue of the certificate of change of proprietor of the business and for responding to a claim arising from a transaction made during that period.
Chapter Six
General Provisions

27. Inspection and Investigation

If the Registrar is satisfied, based on reasonable evidence, that any person is carrying on a business without registration as specified in this Act, the Registrar shall have the power to inspect and investigate the place where the business is being carried on, obtain information on the person deemed to be carrying on the business, and take action against such person, in accordance with the relevant law relating to business registration.

28. Contravention of the Law

(a) No person shall act in contravention of the provisions of this Act.

(b) Any person who commits an act in contravention of this Act shall be liable to a fine of not less than MVR 1,000/- (one thousand) and not more than MVR 100,000/- (one hundred thousand), depending on the gravity of the act committed, at the discretion of the Registrar.

29. Register of Sole Proprietorships

(a) The Registrar shall maintain a register of sole proprietorships registered under this Act in the manner prescribed in the regulation made under this Act.

(b) An error in the information included in the register specified in subsection (a) of this section in relation to the registration of a particular business may be corrected by the Registrar.

(c) The Registrar may specify in the regulation made under this Act the procedures for correcting the information included in the business register.

30. Correction of Information Relating to Registration

If any change occurs to any information submitted under Section 7 of this Act in relation to a sole proprietorship registered under this Act or its proprietor, the proprietor of the business shall notify the Registrar of the fact within 14 (fourteen) days of the occurrence of the change.

31. Fee Schedule

A schedule of fees to be paid for the registration of a sole proprietorship, the renewal of the registration of such a business, the correction of information relating to registration, and the approval of a business name under this Act is attached as a schedule to this Act.

32.

The schedule to this Act is a part of this Act. This Act shall be complete with that schedule.

33. Commencement of the Act

This Act shall come into force upon the expiration of 90 (ninety) days from the date of its passing, ratification, and publication in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

34. Making and Enforcement of Regulations

(a) The regulations to be made under this Act shall be made and enforced by the Ministry.

(b) The regulations to be made under this Act shall be made and published by the Ministry within a maximum of 1 (one) month from the date of commencement of this Act.

35. Re-registration of Existing Businesses

Upon the commencement of this Act, among the businesses falling within the scope of this Act, businesses registered under the "Regulation on Registries 2008" specified in item 2 of Schedule 1 of Law No. 6/2008 (General Regulations Act) shall be registered under this Act within a period to be determined in the regulation made under this Act.

36. Definitions

Unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given below in relation to them:

(a) "Person" or "individual" or "party" refers to a natural person.

(b) "Business" refers to the meaning used for business in the relevant law relating to business registration. In some cases in this Act, the word "business" is also used to refer to a "sole proprietorship" registered under this Act. In that case, it refers to a sole proprietorship. In any other case, it refers to a business to which this Act applies.

(c) "Sole Proprietorship" refers to a business registered and carried on under a specific name by a sole proprietor in accordance with this Act.

(d) "Proprietor of the Sole Proprietorship" or "Proprietor" refers to the person in whose name a sole proprietorship is registered under this Act.

(e) "Company" refers to companies registered and carrying on business under Law No. 10/96 (Maldivian Companies Act).

(f) "Partnership" refers to partnerships registered and carrying on business under Law No. 13/2011 (Partnership Act).

(g) "Co-operative Society" refers to co-operative societies registered and carrying on business under Law No. 3/2007 (Co-operative Societies Act).

(h) "Registrar" refers to the Registrar of Businesses as specified in the relevant law relating to business registration.

(i) "Ministry" refers to the government ministry designated to implement economic policies.

(j) "Not ordinarily residing in the Maldives" refers to residing in the Maldives for a period of less than a total of 183 (one hundred and eighty-three) days in a year.

(k) "Certificate" refers to a document indicating that a business has been registered or that any change has been made in relation to the business, containing such information as the Registrar may determine.
