Special Act on the Local Council Elections 2020

1. Introduction and Title

(a) This is an Act to postpone the Local Council Elections 2020, which was scheduled to be held in the Maldives, until a safe environment for holding the election can be established, and to formulate other special procedures concerning the said election. This is due to the declaration of a state of public health emergency in the Maldives under Section 33 of the Public Health Protection Act (Act No. 7/2012), to take necessary safety measures in relation to the rapidly spreading global pandemic, COVID-19, and because such measures include numerous actions to prevent the spread of the disease within the community.

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Special Act on the Local Council Elections 2020".

2. Postponement of the Local Council Elections 2020

(a) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any other law, the Local Council Elections 2020 and the Women's Development Committee Elections 2020, which were announced by the Elections Commission prior to the commencement of this Act, are hereby postponed upon the commencement of this Act.

(b) The Local Council Elections 2020 and the Women's Development Committee Elections 2020, postponed under subsection (a) of this section, shall be held and concluded within 1 (one) year from the date of commencement of this Act.

(c) With the postponement of the Local Council Elections 2020 under this section, the new date set for the election under subsection (b) shall be used for the purpose of calculating the deadlines stipulated in the Decentralization Act (Act No. 7/2010), the Local Council Elections Act (Act No. 10/2010), and the General Elections Act (Act No. 11/2008).

3. No Change to the List of Candidates

(a) Although the Local Council Elections 2020 is postponed under Section 2 of this Act, the candidates contesting in the election shall be the candidates determined and publicly announced by the Elections Commission on 6 March 2020.[1]

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, this section does not prevent a candidate who wishes to withdraw their name from doing so within a time frame determined by the Elections Commission.

4. Considering Unopposed Candidates as Elected

(a) Although the Local Council Elections 2020 is postponed under Section 2 of this Act, individuals who were declared elected by the Elections Commission on 4 March 2020 under Section 24 of the Local Council Elections Act (Act No. 10/2010), due to the number of candidates not exceeding the number of members to be elected for a specific constituency, shall be considered as elected individuals.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, the members mentioned in that subsection shall assume office on the same date that the members elected in the Local Council Elections, held on the date specified under Section 2(b) of this Act, assume their office.

5. Considering Legally Required Procedures as Completed

(a) All procedures conducted by the Elections Commission in relation to the Local Council Elections 2020 before the commencement of this Act, under the Decentralization Act (Act No. 7/2010), the Local Council Elections Act (Act No. 10/2010), and the General Elections Act (Act No. 11/2008), shall be considered valid procedures for the purpose of the election to be held on the date specified under Section 2(b) of this Act. Furthermore, none of those procedures shall be required to be completed again due to the postponement of the election.

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this section, this section does not prevent the undertaking of necessary actions regarding the voter registry, re-registration of voters to a location other than their permanent address, and matters related to the number of ballot boxes and the number of voters per ballot box, following the postponement of the Local Council Elections 2020 under Section 2(a) of this Act.

6. Annulment of Suspension of Civil Service Employees

(a) Upon the commencement of this Act, the suspension of civil service employees, who are among the candidates announced by the Elections Commission on 6 March 2020 for the Local Council Elections 2020 under Section 13 of the Local Council Elections Act (Act No. 10/2010), is hereby annulled.

(b) Upon the annulment of the suspension mentioned in subsection (a) of this section, the civil service employees referred to in that subsection are reinstated to their former positions.

(c) As the suspension of civil service employees is annulled and they are reinstated to their jobs under this section due to the long-term postponement of the election during a public health emergency, they shall not conduct any election campaign activities from the time of their reinstatement until they are suspended again under subsection (d) of this section.

(d) The civil service employees whose suspension is annulled under this section shall be suspended again under Section 13 of the Local Council Elections Act (Act No. 10/2010) from the date the Elections Commission announces the resumption of electoral activities for the election to be held on the date specified under Section 2(b) of this Act, as per Section 7(b) of this Act.

7. Resumption of Electoral Affairs and Special Procedures for the Election

(a) The Elections Commission must resume the necessary work to hold the postponed election as per subsection (b) of Section 2, within a maximum of 7 (seven) days from the commencement of the 1st Amendment to the Special Act on Local Council Elections 2020 (Act No. 3/2020).[2]

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, as long as the state of public health emergency declared under the Public Health Protection Act (Act No. 7/2012) in relation to COVID-19 remains in effect, the resumption and continuation of electoral activities under subsection (a) must be in accordance with the measures, procedures, and guidelines established by the Director General of Public Health.[2]

(c) The procedures to be established by the Director General of Public Health under subsection (b) shall be formulated and published within 7 (seven) days from the date mentioned in subsection (d) of this section. The formulation of these procedures by the Director General of Public Health must ensure that the election can be held with freedom, fairness, and equality.

(d) The electoral activities under subsection (a) shall be resumed after setting a prior date for their commencement. Such a date shall be set to provide at least 3 (three) days' notice between the announcement of the date and the resumption of electoral activities.

(e) On the date set for the resumption of electoral activities under subsection (d) of this section, a new date for holding the election must be determined.

(f) Should a situation arise that obstructs the holding of the election in accordance with the law within the period specified in Section 2(b) of this Act, the Elections Commission must notify the People's Majlis with reasons, at least 30 (thirty) days before the expiry of the period stated in Section 2(b) of this Act.

8. Commencement of the Act

This Act shall come into force on the day it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government of Maldives Gazette.[3]

9. Duration of the Act

This Act shall remain in effect from the date of its commencement until the Local Council Elections, required to be held under Section 2(b) of this Act, are held, and the newly elected members to the councils assume their office.

10. Definitions

Unless expressly stated otherwise in this Act, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given below:

"Local Council Elections 2020" refers to the local council elections which were announced by the Elections Commission on 4 February 2020 to be held on 4 April 2020, later postponed on 12 March 2020 to 18 April 2020, and which the Commission determined on 13 April 2020 could not be held on that date due to the state of public health emergency declared in the Maldives in relation to COVID-19.

"Women's Development Committee Elections 2020" refers to the Women's Development Committee elections which were announced by the Elections Commission on 4 February 2020 to be held on 4 April 2020, later postponed on 12 March 2020 to 18 April 2020, and which the Commission determined on 13 April 2020 could not be held on that date due to the state of public health emergency declared in the Maldives in relation to COVID-19.[4][5]

"Elections Commission" refers to the Elections Commission as defined in the Elections Commission Act (Act No. 8/2008).

"COVID-19" refers to the Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19), a disease caused by the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).
