State Salary Policy Act

Chapter One
Introduction

Introduction and Name
1.
(a) This is the law that outlines the framework for providing advice on determining the salaries and benefits of state employees, who are paid from the state budget as specified in Article 96 of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives, as well as for reviewing, amending, and re-determining salaries and benefits, and for establishing the benefits to be given upon resignation or termination.

(b) This law shall be cited as the "State Salary Policy Act."

Chapter Two
Status of the Law

Status of the Law
2.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision in any law other than the Constitution, for the purpose of remunerating an employee or employees of the state as defined in this Act, or for delegating the authority to remunerate, upon the commencement of this Act, the determination of salaries and benefits by the President, the approval or consent for salaries and benefits by the Minister of Finance and Treasury, the determination of salaries and benefits by the People's Majlis, and the determination of salaries and benefits by independent institutions shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

(b) If another law provides otherwise for the payment of salaries and benefits to a state employee or employees as defined in this Act, or for granting the authority to pay salaries and benefits, that part of the law shall be read in conjunction with this Article (a) and other articles of this Act, giving precedence to the principles stated herein, in order to uphold the principle set forth in Article (a).

Legal Status
3.
(a) This law establishes a commission named the "National Pay Commission" to professionally and systematically establish, review, and amend the standards that must be considered by entities empowered by the Constitution to determine the salaries, benefits, and post-employment benefits for state employees. It also outlines the procedures for this commission to carry out the task of determining salaries and benefits for various parties as mandated by laws passed by the People's Majlis.[1]

(b) Under this law, the authority to determine the salaries and benefits for state employees and the benefits upon leaving employment or membership, which has been assigned to various parties through laws passed by the People's Majlis, is vested in the National Pay Commission.[1] Furthermore, this law sets forth the principles to be followed by various parties, both individually and collectively, in exercising the power granted by the Constitution to determine salaries, benefits, and post-employment benefits.

Chapter Three
Purpose

Purpose
4. The purpose of this law is to achieve the following:

(a) To facilitate the establishment of pre-determined professional standards for reference by the authorities empowered to determine the salaries and benefits of state employees.

(b) To facilitate the transformation of salaries and benefits for state employees into a living wage that promotes productivity, narrows disparities between professions, grades, and classes, and enables a dignified life.

(c) To assist in safeguarding the rights of state employees as workers, to the extent of the state's capability.

(d) To pave the way for the state to find sustainable solutions to the problems arising from the increasing national debt, difficulties in sustainable financial expenditure, and the challenge of balancing the state budget due to the necessity of allocating funds that could be used for productive purposes to salaries and benefits.

(e) To facilitate the creation of a salary and benefits system that supports the state in maintaining financial policies that help in sustaining the Maldives' debt repayment capacity in light of the growing population and national debt, maintaining the well-being of the growing population, and achieving the "Sustainable Development Goals" identified by the UN.

(f) To support the establishment of a centralized system for determining salaries, granting promotions, providing benefits, increasing, decreasing, and standardizing benefits in a manner dictated by the economic realities and social justice of the Maldives.

Chapter Four
The Pay Commission

National Pay Commission
5. Upon the commencement of this Act, a commission by the name of "National Pay Commission" is hereby established.[1][2]

Members of the Commission
6.
(a) The Commission shall be composed of 5 (five) members.

(b) The Commission shall consist of the following persons:
(1) The Minister of the ministry entrusted by the President at the time with the management of state finances; and
(2) An additional 4 (four) members appointed by the President.[2]

(c) The members of the Commission shall be appointed by the President.[2]

(d) The President of the Commission shall be the Minister of the ministry entrusted by the President at the time with the management of state finances.[2]

(e) The President shall appoint a member from among those appointed under sub-section (b)(2) of this Article as the Vice President of the Commission.

(f) The 4 (four) members appointed under sub-section (b)(2) of this Article shall be appointed to serve on a part-time basis.

Term of Office for Commission Members
7.
(a) The term of a member appointed to the Commission under sub-section (b)(2) of Article 6 of this Act shall be 5 (five) years from the date of appointment.

(b) With the exception of a member whose position becomes vacant under Article 10 of this Act, any other member appointed to the Commission under sub-section (b)(2) of Article 6 of this Act may be re-appointed for one additional term.

Salaries of Commission Members
8. The salaries and other benefits of the persons appointed as members of the Commission shall be determined by the President on the advice of the People's Majlis.

Qualifications of Commission Members
9. Every member of the Commission appointed under sub-section (b)(2) of Article 6 of this Act shall possess the following qualifications and conditions:

(a) Be a Muslim;

(b) Be a citizen of the Maldives;

(c) Be of sound mind;

(d) Be at least 25 (twenty-five) years of age;

(e) Not have been convicted of an offense for which a hadd is prescribed in Islamic law;

(f) Not be a person who has been declared bankrupt;

(g) Not have been convicted of a bribery offense; and

(h) Have obtained a first degree in the legal, financial, or administrative field or an equivalent qualification recognized by the relevant government authority, and have at least 3 (three) years of experience in a relevant field, or have at least 7 (seven) years of experience in a relevant field.

Vacancy of Position
10. A member's position shall become vacant if any of the following circumstances arise:

(a) Resignation from membership through a written letter to the President;

(b) Death;

(c) Loss of a qualification required for a Commission member as stipulated in this Act;

(d) Removal from office by the President upon finding that the member is unable to perform their duties.

(e) Should a position on the Commission become vacant due to any of the circumstances mentioned in this Article, the President shall appoint a member to that position for the remainder of the term within 30 (thirty) days of the vacancy.

Holding of Commission Meetings and Quorum for Meetings
11.
(a) The Commission shall hold at least 2 (two) meetings every calendar month.

(b) A meeting of the Commission can only be held if more than half of the Commission's members are present.

Presiding over Commission Meetings
12.
(a) The meetings of the Commission shall be presided over by the President of the Commission.

(b) Notwithstanding the provision in sub-section (a) of this Article, in a situation where the President of the Commission is unable to attend a meeting, the meeting shall be presided over by the Vice President of the Commission.

(c) In the absence of both the President and the Vice President of the Commission, the meetings of the Commission shall be presided over by a member elected by a majority vote of the members present.

Secretariat of the Commission
13.
(a) A secretariat shall be established for the Commission to assist with its administrative, legal, and technical work.

(b) The secretariat of the Commission shall be established as a body functioning under the Ministry of Finance and Treasury.

Staff of the Secretariat
14.
(a) The necessary staff for the secretariat of the Commission shall be appointed by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury upon the advice of the Commission. The staff appointed to the secretariat of the Commission in this manner shall be civil service employees under Law No. 5/2007 (Maldives Civil Service Act).[2]

(b) From among the staff appointed in accordance with sub-section (a) of this Article, 8 (eight) employees shall be appointed for technical work from the following 8 (eight) fields. And each appointed employee must have obtained a first degree in the field for which they were appointed or an equivalent qualification recognized by the relevant government authority and must have at least 3 (three) years of experience in that field.
(1) Economics;
(2) Human Resource Management;
(3) Accounting and Financial Management;
(4) Statistics;
(5) Legal field;
(6) Health Management;
(7) Educational Management;
(8) Information Communication Technology Management.

Informing the Commission of its Area of Responsibility
15.
(a) The President shall, in writing, inform the Commission of the specific tasks it needs to complete and the matters it needs to give special attention to and decide upon at any given time.

(b) The tasks assigned by the President to the Commission under sub-section (a) of this Article shall be carried out by the Commission within the scope of responsibilities and principles established for it by this Act.

(c) No directive issued by the President under sub-section (a) of this Article shall be an order that limits a power or responsibility granted to the Commission by this Act.

General Responsibilities of the Commission
16. The general responsibilities of the Commission are as follows:

(a) Except for the parties mentioned in sub-sections (h) and (i) of this Article, to determine the salaries and salary increments of other state employees, and to establish policies, standards, and principles for benefits that can be given to increase the productivity of state employees, and for benefits upon leaving employment or membership;

(b) To formulate principles and standards for determining the appropriate salary and benefits for any person in any profession;

(c) To state the principles and procedures by which variations in benefits can be introduced for different regions of the Maldives, based on the cost of living in those regions;

(d) To state the principles and procedures by which proportional differences in salary can be introduced based on the workload, skill, specialization, and potential risks associated with the nature of the work of employees in various state institutions;

(e) To review the salaries and benefits currently provided to state employees and to specify how any necessary reforms to salaries and benefits should be implemented;

(f) To formulate policies and standards for providing sustainable salaries and benefits over the long term, and for providing a sustainable benefit upon leaving employment, within the scope of the revenue received by the Maldivian state;

(g) To establish principles that will guide the sustainable maintenance of salaries and other benefits for state employees, considering the job opportunities in the Maldives, the cost of living, the cost of recruiting employees, the investment required for employees, the return on that investment from employees, the productivity of employees, and ways in which the workforce can be increased;

(h) To study the salaries and benefits that are to be determined by the President under the Constitution and laws, and if a reform or change is deemed necessary, to note it and provide advice on the matter to the President;

(i) To study the salaries and benefits that are to be determined by the People's Majlis under the Constitution and laws, and if a reform or change is deemed necessary, to note it and provide advice on the matter to the People's Majlis;

(j) To study the salaries and benefits that are to be determined by the Judiciary under the Constitution and laws, and if a reform or change is deemed necessary, to note it and provide advice on the matter to that branch;

(k) Except for the parties mentioned in sub-sections (h) and (i) of this Article, to study the salaries and benefits of employees of all other state institutions and offices, and if a reform or change is deemed necessary, to note it, and within the legal capacity granted to the Commission by this Act, to make amendments and to order the respective institution or office to act in accordance with those amendments;

(l) To perform all technical, administrative, and legal duties that need to be carried out in relation to the responsibilities and powers of the Commission;

(m) To conduct studies, surveys, and information gathering activities related to the responsibilities, objectives, and powers of the Commission;

(n) To collect, obtain, and publish information within the scope of the Commission's responsibilities, objectives, and powers;

(o) To hold various meetings including with the Government, the People's Majlis, the Judiciary, independent institutions, employees, and employers to share and enhance relevant information;

(p) To do all things necessary to fulfill the powers and responsibilities entrusted to the Commission in the most complete manner;

(q) To prepare an annual report containing the work done by the Commission, the results determined from that work, proposals related to salaries and benefits for the upcoming year, observations, and decisions, and to send the report to the President and the People's Majlis, and to publish the report publicly;

(r) To prepare a report every 5 (five) years containing the work done by the Commission, the results determined from that work, proposals related to salaries and benefits for the next 5 (five) years, observations, and decisions, and to send the report to the President and the People's Majlis, and to publish the report publicly.

Chapter Five
Salary Policies

Formulating Salary Policy
17. In formulating the policies, principles, standards, and procedures for the salaries and benefits of state employees, the Commission shall pay attention to the following matters:

(a) When determining the salary for a particular profession, to set the salary and benefits for those individuals in a way that makes the profession viable, attracts more people to it, and helps to increase the number of professionals in that field in the Maldives;

(b) When formulating the salary and benefits for a particular profession, to establish appropriate grades and levels for that profession, and to determine salaries and benefits that are suitable for those grades and levels;

(c) To introduce variations in benefits based on the differences in the cost of living in various regions of the Maldives, the workload, skill, specialization, and the potential risks an employee may face due to the nature of the work;

(d) To ensure the salary and benefits are sufficient to meet the needs of life, allow for a healthy and safe lifestyle, and facilitate a dignified life that contributes to the well-being of employees;

(e) To make the salary and benefits supportive of achieving the visions and goals declared or published for national development;

(f) For every person in any profession, regardless of their position, to have a clearly defined minimum salary and benefit they are entitled to for the job they perform within that profession;

(g) For people working under similar conditions and principles to receive similar salaries and benefits.

Matters to be Considered when Formulating Salary Policy
18.
(a) When the Commission undertakes the work of reviewing salaries and benefits, it shall be the duty of the Commission to obtain information through public meetings, conduct consultative meetings, hold open interviews with various parties, speak with the widest possible variety and class of employees and employers, and to the extent possible, provide opportunities for other interested parties who wish to participate to submit their views.

(b) In formulating the salary policy for state employees, the Commission shall individually consider the following matters:
(1) The salary being a living wage;
(2) The salary being balanced with the "Consumer Price Index";
(3) The salary being indexed to inflation;
(4) The benefits given to people working in a place other than their place of residence being an incentive for them to work in those places;
(5) The benefits being an incentive for people who wish to work in various parts of the Maldives, especially on islands with small populations;
(6) The salary helping to maintain and improve the standard of living;
(7) The salary being adequate for a healthy and safe lifestyle;
(8) The salary being one that the paying parties are capable of providing;
(9) The salary being one that distributes the nation's wealth to as many parties as possible, when viewed from the standard of the nation's general prosperity and social and economic justice;
(10) The salary for specific positions being determined by considering the average salary for those positions in the country.

Introducing Salary Differentials
19.
(a) Under this Act, it is permissible to introduce differences in salaries and benefits based on different jobs and professions, to introduce differences in the salaries and benefits of people working in different parts of the Maldives, and to differentiate salaries based on the economic situation and cost of living of the island where a person resides.

(b) A difference introduced to salaries under sub-section (a) of this Article shall not be considered a difference made in contravention of Article 17 of the Constitution or Article 4 of Law No. 2/2008 (Employment Act) among a group of people working under equal principles. Furthermore, a difference introduced to a salary or benefit under sub-section (a) of this Article shall be considered as being made for the purpose of not applying the same principle to people in different situations, and for the purpose of not applying a different principle to people in similar situations.

Chapter Six
General Principles

Budget of the Commission and Budget Management
20.
(a) The funds required to implement the provisions of this Act shall be obtained by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury by including it in its budget.

(b) The Ministry of Finance and Treasury shall maintain the accounts of all expenditures to be made from the budget allocated to the Commission in relation to its work.

Period for Constituting the Commission
21. Members shall be appointed to the National Pay Commission specified in this Act within a maximum of 10 (ten) days from the commencement of this Act.

Making and Implementing Regulations
22.
(a) The regulations required for the Commission to perform the duties it must carry out under this Act shall be made and implemented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury.

(b) Within a maximum of 3 (three) months from the first appointment of members to the Commission established under this Act, the regulations that must be made under this Act shall be made and publicly announced.

Transfer of the Power to Determine Salaries Granted by Other Laws to the National Pay Commission
23. Notwithstanding any other provision in any other law, upon the commencement of this Act, except in the circumstances specified in the Constitution and where otherwise provided for in this Act, the power to determine salaries and benefits, and benefits to be given upon leaving employment or membership, which has been granted to various parties by means of a law passed by the People's Majlis, is hereby transferred to the National Pay Commission established under this Act in accordance with the provisions herein.[2]

Commencement of the Act
24. This Act shall come into force 6 (six) months after it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

Definitions
25. Unless the context in which a phrase or word is used in this Act clearly indicates otherwise, the following phrases and words shall have the meanings given below, in relation to those phrases and words.

(a) "Consumer Price Index" refers to the price of essential food items and services for the basic needs of life, and includes changes in the prices of those items.

(b) "Commission" refers to the National Pay Commission established by Article 5 of this Act.

(c) "Inflation" refers to the year-on-year increase in the price of goods and services in the Maldivian economy.

(d) "Indexing" refers to the practice of adjusting salaries to reflect changes in the price of goods and services.

(e) "Benefit" refers to money paid directly or indirectly as a benefit in addition to the salary given in connection with the job performed, and the benefit determined to be given upon leaving employment, or facilities provided that can be valued in monetary terms.

(f) "Independent Institutions" refers to the Auditor General, the Prosecutor General, the Human Rights Commission, the Civil Service Commission, the Judicial Service Commission, the Elections Commission, and the Anti-Corruption Commission. In addition, it includes any other institution or body established as an independent and autonomous institution by law.

(g) "Salary" refers to the predetermined wage for a job or work, which is paid according to a specified and regular procedure, not including benefits.

(h) "State Employees" refers to employees who are responsible for carrying out a state duty and who receive a salary and benefits from the state, whether in an elected position, an appointed position, a permanent position, a temporary position, a position with a fixed term, or a position held under a contract. This definition includes the President, the Vice President, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, persons appointed by the President under Article 115(l) of the Constitution, the Chief Justice, judges, employees working in the administration of justice, the Speaker of the People's Majlis, the Deputy Speaker of the Majlis, members of the Majlis, employees working in the service of the Majlis, all members of the Maldives National Defence Force, all members of the Maldives Police Service, all employees of the Maldives Civil Service, all persons working in institutions and offices established by the Constitution or by law, and parties and employees who are entrusted with a responsibility from among the official responsibilities of the Government of the Maldives or the State of the Maldives.

(i) "Secretariat" refers to the office of the National Pay Commission established under this Act.

