Thalassemia Control Act

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This is the Act to control the increasing prevalence of Thalassemia in the Maldives, to establish a system for the treatment of children with Thalassemia, to declare that treatment system as a system run at the expense of the Maldivian state, and to state the general principles for controlling Thalassemia and managing its treatment system.
(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Thalassemia Control Act".

Purpose

2.
The main purposes of this Act are stated below.
(a) To establish a state institution to work at the forefront to control the increasing prevalence of Thalassemia in the Maldives and to provide treatment for children with Thalassemia.
(b) To introduce a system for registering and maintaining the details of children with Thalassemia.
(c) To arrange for the treatment system for children with Thalassemia at the state's expense, and to establish the procedure for it.
(d) To establish a system for testing children and individuals for Thalassemia.
(b) To provide special considerations from the state to enable children with Thalassemia to live in the world like other children and people, and to establish a system for the state to provide the necessary medical treatment for those children.
(f) To make the treatment given to children with Thalassemia the most effective treatment, and in addition to treating Thalassemia, to establish a way for them to receive state assistance and support to protect them from other diseases they are exposed to due to Thalassemia.

Definition of Thalassemia

3.
In this Act, "Thalassemia" refers to a health condition that affects a person due to the insufficient production of blood in their body, resulting from the lack of the required amount of hemoglobin, a substance that should be present in the blood, or the improper arrangement of this substance in the blood, due to a condition inherited from the child's parents at birth.

The Party with the Primary Responsibility

4.
(a) The Minister shall have the primary responsibility for the enforcement and administration of this Act and for carrying out the matters stated in this Act.
(b) The Minister shall have all the necessary powers within the scope of this Act and other laws to carry out the matters stated in this Act.

Some Decentralized Principles

5.
(a) In the jurisdictions of the Island Councils, Atoll Councils, and City Councils, the Minister shall, under this Act, designate each of these councils as the agent appointed for that area to enforce this Act, in order to facilitate the councils to bear the responsibility of enforcing this Act and to give it legal authority.
(b) The services mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be provided by the council through the main healthcare facility in that atoll.
(c) The Minister may, under this Act, give instructions to the parties responsible for controlling Thalassemia at the level of Island Councils, Atoll Councils, and City Councils, the parties working to increase awareness about Thalassemia, and the parties working to provide protection from Thalassemia to the citizens.
(d) If specific responsibilities are assigned under this Act at the level of an Island Council, Atoll Council, or City Council, it shall be done in writing in a manner that clearly states those powers or responsibilities.
(e) The responsibilities assigned to Island Councils, Atoll Councils, and City Councils under this Act shall be detailed in a regulation made under this Act, publicly announced, and published in the Gazette.

Establishment of the Thalassemia and Other Hemoglobinopathies Center

6.
(a) The Thalassemia and Other Hemoglobinopathies Center is hereby established under this Article of this Act to protect Maldivian citizens from Thalassemia, to control the increasing prevalence of Thalassemia in the Maldives, to provide treatment to children with Thalassemia, and to bear the general responsibility at the national level and to be active at the forefront of increasing awareness about Thalassemia.
(b) The funds required to run the Center mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be provided from the budget of the Maldivian state.
(c) The most senior official of the Center mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article is the Director-General. That position is hereby created under this subsection of this Article. A person shall be appointed to that position by the Civil Service Commission. The person appointed to this position must be a person with experience working in the field of management and Thalassemia.
(d) The Director-General shall work under the general guidance of the Minister.

Jurisdiction of the Center

7.
The following matters are within the jurisdiction of the Center, and the Center shall be responsible for carrying them out.
(a) To determine the programs to be conducted to control Thalassemia under this Act, to set the goals to be achieved by those programs, to set the standards for conducting those programs, and to establish the rules for how to conduct those programs.
(b) To make it mandatory for healthcare institutions or centers within the jurisdiction of the councils to adhere to the goals, rules, and principles stated in subsection (a) of this Article.
(c) To conduct projects that need to be carried out at the national level regarding the control of Thalassemia.
(d) To conduct projects and programs that need to be carried out to provide treatment for Thalassemia.
(e) To conduct education, training, and awareness programs aimed at different segments of the population to stop Thalassemia.
(f) To collect information regarding the increasing prevalence of Thalassemia in the Maldives and to monitor the trend of the disease's increase.
(k) To conduct programs aimed at health workers, children with Thalassemia, their guardians, and the general public regarding Thalassemia.
(h) To establish a system for treating diseases that children with Thalassemia contract due to Thalassemia.
(i) To enter into agreements with local and foreign organizations and foreign countries for the purpose of implementing this Act and working to control Thalassemia, and to plan and conduct programs in collaboration with such organizations and countries.
(j) To establish a sufficient number of laboratories with adequate staff and resources to test for Thalassemia, to determine the services to be provided by those places, and for those services to be provided by those places in a sustainable manner.
(k) To prepare a report on the work being done to control Thalassemia and the manner in which the treatment system is being managed, and to submit the report to the Minister before the end of January of each year.
(l) To conduct projects and arrange treatment systems related to health conditions that affect a person due to an inherited condition or a condition that develops in the person, resulting from a deficiency of substances that should be in their blood, an excess of substances that should be in their blood compared to the required ratio, or a change in the arrangement of substances that should be in their blood.

Registration

8.
(a) From the moment it is confirmed that a newborn child or any born child has a symptom of Thalassemia, it is a requirement of this Act for the guardians of children with Thalassemia to register the child's name in the relevant register at the Center.
(b) The service, assistance, and support that children with Thalassemia are entitled to under this Act at the state's expense will only be provided to registered children after they have been registered under this Act.

Responsibility of Guardians in Obtaining Treatment

9.
The guardian shall be responsible for seeking adequate treatment for a child with Thalassemia. In this regard, the guardian shall be responsible for seeking the necessary treatment to maintain the hemoglobin level in the body of a child with Thalassemia at not less than 9 (nine), for conducting regular tests, for administering medication used to remove the iron component from the body, and for seeking any other treatment that the child needs in relation to Thalassemia.

Conducting Programs

10.
(a) The Center shall conduct programs at the community level, island level, atoll level, or national level to prevent the spread of Thalassemia in the Maldives.
(b) The programs conducted by the Center shall be conducted with a view to achieving the following objectives.
(1) To reduce the rate of birth of children with Thalassemia year by year.
(2) To ensure that children with Thalassemia receive treatment with adequate results.
(3) To establish technical resources and personnel at the island level, atoll level, and national level to provide treatment for Thalassemia and to increase awareness of Thalassemia.
(4) To provide the human resources needed to conduct programs for Thalassemia treatment and control.
(c) In conducting the programs of the Center, the following matters shall be paid attention to.
(1) To make people aware of the nature, type, and danger of Thalassemia and how the condition is inherited.
(2) To carry out the work necessary to identify who is likely to have a child with Thalassemia and to identify children or people with symptoms of Thalassemia in a result-oriented and reliable manner. In this regard, to give special attention to students pursuing secondary education.
(3) To provide the necessary information and counseling for family planning to people who are considered likely to have a child with Thalassemia.
(4) To identify married couples who are at risk of having a child with Thalassemia, to make them understand this, and to assist them in taking the necessary steps.
(5) To treat Thalassemia treatment and control as a national health and economic issue, and to make it a matter that does not require large expenditures to prevent the spread of Thalassemia to many and for the treatment of Thalassemia.
(6) To conduct various programs in collaboration with government agencies and private organizations.
(7) To provide treatment to remove excess iron from the body of children with Thalassemia when the iron substances in their bodies are more than the required amount. And to make the treatment and resources used the most effective treatment and resources.
(8) To make arrangements for the provision of necessary guidance and advice regarding Thalassemia in all general health service centers, and to make arrangements for the diagnosis of the disease.
(9) To plan matters in a way that allows for the identification of the work done to identify people who may have Thalassemia, the work done to control Thalassemia, the rate at which Thalassemia is being treated, and the changes in the number of children with Thalassemia from year to year.
(10) As children with Thalassemia are children who need blood transfusions at least once or twice a month for their entire lives, to make arrangements for blood transfusions.
(11) As children with Thalassemia are a group of people who have to live by receiving blood transfusions from others, to take the necessary steps and provide the necessary treatment to prevent them from contracting a communicable disease through blood, in connection with blood, or through a device or instrument used in blood transfusion.
(d) Every program conducted to control Thalassemia shall include identifying who in the community may have Thalassemia, providing counseling, and providing the necessary treatment for health problems arising from Thalassemia.

Responsibility of Individuals in Testing for Thalassemia

11.
(a) It is the responsibility of the guardians of every Maldivian child under the age of 18 at the time this Act comes into force to have the child tested for Thalassemia before the child reaches the age of 18 and to keep the results safe.
(b) It is the responsibility of the state to establish a system for testing for Thalassemia in an easy and affordable manner.

Assistance for Blood Treatment

12.
(a) The Center shall arrange for blood transfusions for children with Thalassemia on the day they need them, at the expense of the state.
(b) The Center shall compile and maintain a register of people who voluntarily express their interest in donating blood to children with Thalassemia and the details of their blood.
(c) The persons introduced to the Center by the children as donors for children with Thalassemia and the details of their blood shall be included in the register created under subsection (b) of this Article.
(d) The Center shall work on its own initiative to find donors for children with Thalassemia. And the persons who agree to donate blood as a result of such work and the details of their blood shall be included in the register compiled under subsection (b) of this Article.
(e) The Center shall make arrangements for the proper storage and maintenance of the blood obtained or collected by the Center in accordance with subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this Article.

Assistance for Treatment Related to Iron Substance

13.
The Center shall, at the expense of the state, provide the regular treatment that children with Thalassemia need to prevent the accumulation of iron substances in their blood in excess of the required amount of iron in their bodies.

Assistance for Bone Marrow Transplant

14.
Among the children who wish to undergo a bone marrow transplant through a blood relative of the child with Thalassemia and with their help, for the children who meet the criteria in accordance with the rules set by the Center, 50% (fifty percent) of the cost of the bone marrow transplant shall be provided by the state to the extent that the state can afford it.

Travel Assistance

15.
If a child with Thalassemia does not have access to blood transfusion services while living in their home island, or if any other special treatment that a child with Thalassemia needs is not available on that island, the state shall arrange for travel to the nearest or most easily accessible island where the service is available, in accordance with the rules set by the Center.

Establishment of the Thalassemia Fund

16.
(a) A fund named the Maldives Thalassemia Fund is hereby established under this Article.
(b) The fund mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article is established and it is determined that money will be deposited separately into that fund in order to bear the expenses stated in this Act from the Maldivian state for the control of Thalassemia and for the treatment of children with Thalassemia, and to ensure that the money required to provide those services is deposited separately each year based on the proportion of children who need the service.

Types of Money that can be Deposited into the Fund

17.
The following types of money may be deposited into the Fund.
(a) Money allocated by the People's Majlis in the state budget each year and released to the Fund for the control of Thalassemia and for the treatment of Thalassemia in the Maldives under this Act.
(b) Money received by the Maldivian government as aid from various parties for the control of Thalassemia in the Maldives.
(c) Money given by a person or persons from among the citizens of the Maldives, or a person or persons from among the citizens of any other country, or an association or organization registered in the Maldives or registered abroad, to the Maldivian government as aid for the control of Thalassemia and for the treatment of Thalassemia in the Maldives.
(d) The money deposited into the Fund under subsections (b) and (c) of this Article is money released in addition to, and separate from, the money released in the state budget to run the Center.

Responsibility for the Fund

18.
The Minister shall be responsible for the management and maintenance of the Fund and for the money in the Fund.

Use of Money

19.
(a) The money in the Fund shall be used to directly carry out the matters that need to be done to control Thalassemia and to manage the treatment system for Thalassemia under this Act. The money in this Fund shall not be used to cover the administrative expenses of the Center.
(b) If a party has donated money to the Fund for a specific purpose, that money shall be spent only for that purpose.

Inclusion of Money in the Budget

20.
(a) When the People's Majlis passes the budget for the following year each year, an adequate amount of money shall be released to the Fund through that budget for the control of Thalassemia and for the treatment of Thalassemia.
(b) When the People's Majlis passes the budget for the following year each year, money shall be released in an amount sufficient to run the Center, to enforce this Act, and for the Center to carry out its duties under this Act in the most complete manner.
(c) In allocating money under subsection (b) of this Article, the People's Majlis shall work to the widest possible extent to release the amount of money requested by the Center. The money released to the Center under subsection (b) of this Article is not the money released to the Fund under subsection (a) of this Article.

Delegation of Powers

21.
(a) A specific special power conferred on the Minister under this Act, or a specific special responsibility that the Minister must bear, may be delegated to the Director-General.
(b) If a specific special responsibility is delegated to the Director-General under this Act, he shall perform that responsibility as if that responsibility has been directly delegated to him under this Act.
(c) The Minister has the power to delegate a responsibility or power to a specific category of people or to people holding a specific position, instead of delegating a specific power or a specific responsibility to a specific person.
(d) When a person to whom a specific power or responsibility has been delegated under this Act is exercising that power or responsibility, unless proven otherwise, it must be presumed that he is carrying out that work within the scope of the power or responsibility delegated to him.
(e) Every power delegated by the Minister under this Act to a specific person or a specific category of people may be revoked in writing after being delegated in writing. And the delegation of a power to a specific person is not an obstacle for the Minister to use that power directly.

Employees

22.
The following positions shall be created at the Center, and people shall serve in those positions in a proportion necessary to carry out the work of the Center in a sustainable manner.
(a) Hematologists.
(b) Pediatricians.
(c) Genetic Counselors.
(d) Nurses.
(e) Technologists.
(f) Physicians.

Making and Enforcing Regulations

23.
The regulations that need to be made under this Act shall be made and enforced by the Center with the advice of the Minister. The regulations that need to be made under this Act shall be made and publicly announced within a maximum of 3 (three) months from the date of ratification of this Act.

Commencement of the Act

24.
This Act shall come into force on the day it is passed, ratified, and published in the Gazette of the Maldivian Government.

Definitions

25.
Unless otherwise stated in this Act, the following phrases and words are given the meanings given below in relation to those phrases and words.
(a) "Healthcare facilities" refers to hospitals, centers, posts, clinics, and other such places that provide healthcare services.
(b) "Center" refers to the Thalassemia and Other Hemoglobinopathies Center.
(c) "Minister" refers to the Minister entrusted with the responsibility of managing health affairs.
(d) "Area" refers to the jurisdictions of the Island Councils, Atoll Councils, and City Councils.
(e) "Director-General" refers to the Director-General appointed as the most senior official of the Thalassemia and Other Hemoglobinopathies Center under this Act.
(f) "Counseling" refers to providing special information related to a specific situation, giving guidance on things to be done to change or improve that situation, and providing advice and taking actions to prepare the person receiving the information regarding matters encountered in changing or improving that situation.
(g) "Children with Thalassemia" refers to children between their date of birth and the completion of 18 years of age in the Gregorian calendar, and also includes people who continue to have Thalassemia after completing 18 years of age in the Gregorian calendar.
(h) "Medication used to remove the iron component from the body" refers to all medications and treatments used as Iron Chelation.
