The National Archives Act of the Maldives

Part One
Commencement

1. Introduction and Name

(a) These are the records from among the official records of the Maldivian state that the National Archives office determines to be of archival value.

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "National Archives Act of the Maldives."

2. Responsibility for Maintaining Official State Documents

It is the duty of every person entrusted with the care of official documents, photographs, charts, records, and information of the Maldivian state to protect and maintain them in accordance with this Act.

3. Compliance with this Act

Official documents, photographs, charts, records, and information of the Maldivian state must be maintained in accordance with this Act. Official documents, photographs, charts, records, and information of the Maldivian state shall not be destroyed except as provided for in this Act.

Part Two
Establishment and Administration of the National Archives

4. Establishment of the National Archives

Upon the commencement of this Act, the President of the Republic shall establish a state institution named the "National Archives." The English name of this institution shall be "National Archives."

5. Legal Personality

The National Archives is an independent legal personality with the right to sue and be sued in its own name and shall have its own seal.

6. Responsibilities

The responsibilities of the National Archives shall include the following:

(a) To safely maintain all items required to be kept in the National Archives under this Act.

(b) To encourage the preservation of all documents, records, photographs, and similar items related to the Maldives and Maldivians, even if they do not fall within the scope of this Act.

(c) In addition to the matters specified in this Act, to determine what documents, records, photographs, and similar items must be kept in the National Archives to achieve the objectives of this Act.

(d) To ensure that items kept in the National Archives are maintained under a records and information management policy (based on international standards), to the prescribed standard, and in the most modern manner and quality that the country's economic situation allows.

(e) To arrange for easy access to the items kept in the National Archives.

(f) To foster public interest in the items kept in the National Archives.

(g) To find and research the most desirable methods for preserving the items kept in the National Archives.

(h) To acquire intellectual property ownership of the materials preserved in the National Archives in accordance with the law.

(i) To make additional copies of the items kept in the National Archives, in a manner that does not violate intellectual property rights.

(j) To publish the items kept in the National Archives, in a manner that does not violate intellectual property rights.

(k) To instruct state institutions on how to maintain records that must be kept in the National Archives under this Act, until such records are handed over to the National Archives.

(l) To publish indexes, manuals, leaflets, guides, and similar materials for the easy use of items kept in the National Archives.

(m) To determine which records among the state's documents and records are to be destroyed and the method for their destruction.

(n) To provide necessary training to those who maintain documents, records, and similar items in state institutions.

(o) To find and maintain the necessary resources to make the most desirable use of the items kept in the National Archives.

(p) To provide assistance and cooperation to users of the items kept in the National Archives.

(s) In addition to the matters mentioned above, to do all things necessary to fulfill the objectives of this Act and the responsibilities assigned to the National Archives.

7. Administrative Responsibility

(a) The Director General of the National Archives shall be responsible for managing and maintaining the National Archives under the supervision of the Minister of the ministry to which the President has assigned the oversight of the National Archives.

(b) The President of the Republic shall appoint a person to the post of Director General of the National Archives.

(c) The Director General of the National Archives shall perform his duties in consultation with the Advisory Board specified in Article 12 of this Act.

8. Responsibilities and Duties of the Director General of the National Archives

The responsibilities and duties of the Director General of the National Archives are as follows:

(a) To manage the National Archives in accordance with its objectives and responsibilities.

(b) To ensure that the activities of the National Archives are conducted in accordance with its objectives.

9. Term of Office

The Director General of the National Archives shall be appointed for a term of 5 (five) years. The President of the Republic has the power to extend the employment term of the person appointed to that post for successive 5 (five) year periods.

10. Vacating the Post of Director General

A person holding the post of Director General of the National Archives shall be deemed to have vacated the post if any of the circumstances described in this article arise.

(a) Submitting a letter to the President of the Republic requesting to resign from the post.

(b) If it appears to the President of the Republic that the responsibilities of the post are not being fulfilled.

(c) Death or if it appears to the President of the Republic that the person has become permanently incapable of performing the duties of the post.

(d) If the Board resolves that the responsibilities of the post are not being fulfilled.

11. Status of Employees

Except for the Director General of the National Archives and persons working on a contract basis, employees working at the Archives are civil service employees. They shall be treated in accordance with the Maldives Civil Service Act.

12. Formation of the Advisory Board

The President of the Republic shall form an Advisory Board to provide advice to the Director General of the National Archives for the most desirable management of the affairs of the National Archives.

13. Composition of the Advisory Board

The Advisory Board shall be composed of the following persons:

(a) An employee appointed by the Speaker of the Majlis from among the senior administrative staff of the People's Majlis.

(b) A member appointed by the Minister from among the heads of government higher education institutions.

(c) A member appointed by the President of the Republic from among private higher education providers.

(d) The head of the National Library.

(e) A member appointed by the Maldives National University.

(f) An employee appointed by the Chief Justice from among the senior administrative staff of the Judicial Branch.

(g) An experienced employee from the state broadcasting institution.

(h) The Director General of the National Archives.

(i) A person appointed by the President of the Republic from among private individuals with experience in the field.

14. President and Vice President

The members of the Advisory Board shall elect a President and a Vice President from among themselves. Although the Director General of the National Archives is a member of the Board, the Director General of the National Archives cannot be elected to the posts of President and Vice President of the Board.

15. Presiding over Meetings

The President of the Advisory Board shall preside over the meetings of the Advisory Board. In the absence of the President or if the President is unable to perform his duties, the Vice President shall preside.

16. Maintaining Minutes

Minutes of the meetings of the Advisory Board shall be written and maintained.

17. Holding Meetings

A meeting of the Advisory Board shall be held at least 4 (four) times a year.

18. Requesting a Meeting of the Advisory Board

Upon the submission of a request by 1/4 (one-fourth) of the members of the Advisory Board to hold a meeting, such a meeting shall be held within a maximum of 14 (fourteen) days.

19. Appointment upon Vacancy

If a member of the Advisory Board resigns or is unable to perform the duties of the post for any reason, a new person must be appointed to that post within a maximum of 60 (sixty) days.

20. Resignation of Members

If a member of the Advisory Board wishes to resign from the post, he may do so by a letter addressed to the President of the Board. And if the President of the Board wishes to resign, he may do so by a letter addressed to the President of the Republic.

Part Three
State Documents and Information to be Archived

21. Documents of the People's Majlis

The following documents and records of the People's Majlis shall be safely maintained by the administration of the Majlis for the purpose of being kept in the archives.

(a) Minutes of the People's Majlis and its committees.

(b) Details of voting and attendance at meetings of the People's Majlis and its committees.

(c) Bills, issues, resolutions, petitions submitted to the Majlis, questions posed to ministers, and the answers given by ministers to those questions.

(d) Bills passed by the Majlis, decisions made, and the details of how they were decided.

(e) Proceedings, discussions, documents, photographs, and audio and video recordings of the People's Majlis and its committees.

(f) In accordance with Article 1(a) of this Act, all state institutions shall transfer to the archives only those records from the official state records that are determined by the National Archives office to have archival value.

22. Documents of the Cabinet of Ministers

The following documents and records of the Cabinet of Ministers shall be safely maintained for the purpose of being kept in the archives.

(a) Papers submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers.

(b) Notes of the Cabinet Secretary.

(c) Proceedings, discussions, documents, photographs, and audio and video recordings of the Cabinet of Ministers.

(d) Decisions made by the Cabinet of Ministers and its minutes.

(e) Records that acquire archival status under the principles established by the National Archives office.

23. Documents of all State Institutions and Government Companies

From among the documents of all state institutions and government companies, all documents and records specified in this article shall be safely maintained for the purpose of being kept in the archives.

(a) All cases submitted to tribunals and commissions and statements submitted in connection with those cases.

(b) Documents, photographs, and audio and video recordings submitted in connection with all cases submitted to tribunals and commissions.

(c) Decisions, orders, and judgments of the tribunal or commission.

(d) Records that acquire archival status under the principles established by the National Archives office.

24. Documents Related to the Work of State Institutions

The following documents, records, and information on matters are documents and records that must be safely maintained by all state institutions, to the extent relevant to their scope of work, for the purpose of being kept in the archives.

(a) The history of the Maldives, its atolls, islands, and wards.

(b) The origin of a state institution.

(c) The history of that institution.

(d) The activities that institution has been carrying out.

(e) The organization chart of that institution.

(f) The annual budget prepared by and passed for that institution.

(g) Regulations and operating procedures formulated by that institution.

(h) Ceremonies held by that institution.

(i) Information on local and foreign guests visiting that institution.

(j) Information on the employees of those institutions and any person who has been associated with such an institution at any time, even on a contract basis, and the work done by such a person.

(k) Materials from the history of regional or international organizations in which the Maldives or a specific state institution participates, which the Director General of the National Archives decides should be preserved in the Maldives.

(l) Letters from the public and the replies to such letters.

(m) Interviews given on behalf of the institution, press conferences held, and press releases issued.

(n) Receipts for money spent.

(o) Announcements made.

(p) Laws and regulations formulated.

(q) Bills for services such as water, electricity, and telephone.

(r) Minutes.

(s) Memos, notes, and emails.

(t) Annual reports.

(u) Agreements made.

(v) Details of trips made to foreign countries on behalf of the office.

(w) Messages sent to the leaders, individuals, and associations of foreign countries, and such items sent by them.

(x) Training courses and details of the participants in such courses.

(y) Traditional lacquer-work certificates (faiykolhu) and details of the parties to whom they were presented.

(z) Commemorative documents, gifts, prizes, medals, and similar items given to various parties, and details of the recipients.

(aa) Commemorative documents, gifts, prizes, medals, and similar items given by foreign countries, associations, and individuals to state institutions and their employees, and details of the donors and recipients.

(bb) Recordings of photographs, sound, or video, or sound and video taken in connection with any of the above-mentioned matters.

(cc) Records that acquire archival status under the principles established by the National Archives office.

25. Retention Period for Records

(a) Unless otherwise determined by the Director General of the National Archives, the documents and items specified in Articles 21, 22, 23, and 24 of this Act shall be safely maintained at the respective institution for 25 (twenty-five) years.

(b) Upon the expiration of the period mentioned in paragraph (a) of this article, such items shall be sent to the National Archives.

26. Documents, Records, and Items to be Kept Permanently

(a) The Director General of the National Archives, upon the advice of the Advisory Board, shall determine which of the documents, records, and items sent to the archives after 25 (twenty-five) years in accordance with Article 25 of this Act, shall be kept permanently. Among the items to be kept permanently in this manner, all documents and items from before the year 1980 that are in state institutions and offices shall be included.

(b) Except for the items that the Director General of the National Archives determines must be kept permanently in accordance with paragraph (a) of this article, the Director General of the National Archives has the power to destroy other items in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

27. Destruction of a Document by a Government Office

A government office shall destroy any document only after submitting the matter to the Director General of the National Archives and in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

28. Procedure to be Followed if an Institution is Closed

A state institution shall be permanently closed or dissolved without transferring its responsibilities to another institution only after making arrangements to safely maintain the documents contained within it, in a manner determined by the Director General of the National Archives. And upon a written request from the Director General of the National Archives, any such document, record, or any other item shall be sent to the archives.

Part Four
Historical and Ancient Documents of the Maldives

29. Historical and Ancient Documents

All historical and ancient documents, photographs, charts, records, and information of the Maldives that are under the custody of the state at the time of the passing of this Act shall be protected and maintained by the National Archives.

30. Items in the Possession of Private Individuals

(a) Efforts shall be made to acquire for the National Archives historical and ancient documents, photographs, charts, records, information, books, newspapers, and magazines of the Maldives, or copies thereof, that are in the possession of private individuals, and to protect and maintain these items in the National Archives.

(b) A register of the items mentioned in paragraph (a) of this article shall be kept at the National Archives. The manner of dealing with such items shall be detailed in the regulations made under this Act.

31. Items Located Outside the Maldives

Efforts shall be made to acquire for the National Archives copies of historical and ancient documents, photographs, charts, records of the Maldives, and books and newspapers containing information about the Maldives, that are in the possession of various parties outside the Maldives, and to protect and maintain these items in the National Archives.

32. Taking an Item from the National Archives Outside the Maldives

Any item in the National Archives may be taken out of the Maldives only for temporary purposes, with the advice of the Advisory Board and in accordance with the conditions set by the Board.

Part Five
Miscellaneous

33. Space and Funds Required for the National Archives

The state shall provide a suitable building and facilities to house the items kept in the National Archives and the funds required to operate the place.

34. Keeping Archived Materials in Different Regions of the Maldives

Although archived materials are kept in the National Archives, priority shall be given to keeping copies of these materials in different regions of the Maldives.

35. Violation of the Law

(a) Willfully causing damage to an archived item is a crime. The penalty for a person convicted of this crime is a fine of between MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand) or imprisonment for a term of between 5 (five) and 10 (ten) years, with or without a fine.

(b) If an archived item is damaged due to a person's negligence, that person shall be fined an amount between MVR 500 (five hundred) and MVR 5,000 (five thousand), and a claim for compensation for the damage may be brought against that person.

(c) If an item preserved in the archives is completely lost due to a person's negligence, such a person shall be fined MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand) and imprisoned for a term of between 1 (one) and 5 (five) years.

36. Annual Report

An annual report on the work of the National Archives shall be sent to the President of the Republic and the People's Majlis before February 28 of each year. This report shall include:

(a) The income received and expenses incurred by the National Archives.

(b) A list of items designated for destruction.

(c) Information if any party has destroyed records in violation of this Act and its regulations.

(d) The details of any violation of this Act by any state institution.

37. Commencement of the Act

This Act shall come into force on the day it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

38. Making Regulations

(a) The regulations to be made under this Act shall be made and implemented by the ministry assigned by the President of the Republic to oversee all affairs of the National Archives.

(b) The necessary regulations for the implementation of this Act shall be made and published within 3 (three) months from the date this Act comes into force.

39. Definition of Words and Phrases

Unless otherwise stated in this Act, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given below for those words and phrases.

    "Minister" refers to the minister of the ministry entrusted with overseeing the affairs of the Archives at the time.

    "To maintain with care" refers to all acts done for long-term preservation, and to repair and maintain them in a manner that they will not be damaged or ruined.

    "Publication" refers to making available for sale, rent, or free distribution to the public.

    "Record" refers to documents, or items recorded by means of photograph, audio, or video, created in the administration of the state.
