The Maldives National University Act

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This is the Act that establishes a university by the name of "The Maldives National University," and sets forth its objectives, responsibilities, powers, and related principles.
(b) This Act shall be cited as "The Maldives National University Act."

Chapter 1
General Provisions

Establishment of the University

2.
(a) A university by the name of "The Maldives National University" shall be established within a maximum of 30 (thirty) days from the date this Act comes into force. At the time of the passing of this Act, the "Maldives College of Higher Education," which was operating under the Ministry of Education, shall become a part of the University under this Act. However, the Kulliyyah al-Dirasat al-Islamiyya (College of Islamic Studies), which was transferred to the Maldives College of Higher Education on 5th April 2010, and its functions shall not be included as part of the University established under this Act.
(b) The Kulliyyah al-Dirasat al-Islamiyya shall be maintained as a separate institution and shall not be dissolved until it is transformed into an Islamic University or becomes a legally independent entity.
(c) The name of the university established under this Act is "The Maldives National University." The English name of the University shall be "The Maldives National University."

Legal Status

3.
(a) The Maldives National University is a university of the Maldivian state.
(b) The University shall, in accordance with this Act, be a free legal person with a separate seal, having the capacity to sue and be sued in its own name, and to acquire, hold, and dispose of movable and immovable property in a manner permitted by law, to acquire property in perpetuity, and to conduct transactions in its own name.
(c) The seal of the University shall be safeguarded, maintained, and used in accordance with the principles determined by the University Council.
(d) The President of the Council shall be answerable to the People's Majlis in matters concerning the University.

Objectives of the University

4.
(a) The objective of the University is to create, acquire, preserve, and disseminate the knowledge and skills necessary to perpetually maintain the Maldives as a fully independent Islamic nation, and for the cultural, social, and economic development of the nation, and the advancement of individuals.
(b) The specific objectives of the University are as follows:
(1) To generally increase and expand knowledge and skills.
(2) To provide higher education and training in fields required for the progress of the Maldives, and in a manner that benefits from higher education, to persons who have completed secondary education or persons of an equivalent level, in accordance with principles determined by the Council.
(3) To conduct academic and scientific research and studies, and to publish the results of such activities for the benefit of the national and international community.
(4) To award Bachelor's, Master's, and Doctoral degrees, and other certificates and awards in connection with the courses, training, and education provided by the University.
(5) To establish collaborative relationships with educational institutions within and outside the Maldives.
(6) To develop the University's resources and acquire additional resources in order to achieve the objectives of the University.
(7) To make the best use of all University resources among the centers of the University.
(8) To promote and disseminate Islamic and Maldivian customs and literature.
(9) To do any act that assists in the achievement of the above-mentioned objectives, in a manner not contrary to Islamic Shari'ah and the laws of the Maldives.

Acting in Accordance with Government Policies

5.
All responsibilities of the University shall be carried out, and the powers of the University shall be exercised, in accordance with the main policies determined by the National Council for Higher Education or the Minister responsible for matters relating to higher education.

Powers of the University

6.
(a) The University is vested with the power and authority to do all things necessary to achieve the objectives of the University, in a manner not contrary to Islamic Shari'ah and the laws of the Maldives.
(b) The powers mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article include the following and other such matters:
(1) To acquire by purchase, lease, or otherwise, and to sell, lease, or otherwise dispose of, property.
(2) To develop academic and scientific findings, inventions, new products, and goods on a commercial basis.
(3) To obtain consideration or payment for work done, services rendered, information provided, and goods supplied by the University to other parties.
(4) To establish companies and to participate in the establishment of companies with other parties, in a manner that facilitates the achievement of the University's objectives.
(5) To subscribe to and purchase securities.
(6) To form academic partnerships.
(7) To participate in joint ventures, businesses, and profit-sharing arrangements that assist in achieving the University's objectives.
(8) To enter into contracts.
(9) To construct buildings.
(10) To use and manage the property, land, and buildings included in the University's assets.
(11) To appoint and dismiss employees.
(12) To invest and divest the University's funds.
(13) To conduct academic and scientific research.
(14) To provide financial aid and loans to students.
(15) To award scholarships and fellowships.
(16) To accept gifts, grants, and bequests.
(17) To manage property endowed to the University.
(18) To do such other things as the University is empowered to do by this Act or any other law.
(19) To do such things as are incidental to the powers vested in the University.
(c) Property received by the University as a waqf or trust shall be dealt with in accordance with the powers vested in the University as the administrator of such waqf or trust and in accordance with the prescribed principles.
(d) The powers vested in the University may also be exercised in a foreign country in accordance with the laws of that country.

Composition of the University

7.
The University shall be composed of the following:
(a) The University Council.
(b) The Academic Senate.
(c) Colleges, faculties, centers, schools, divisions, institutes, and similar bodies established by the Council for the administrative and academic management of the University.
(d) Technical and other staff of the University as determined by the Council.
(e) Current and former students as determined by the Council.

Chapter 2
The University Council

The University Council

8.
The University Council is the supreme governing body of the University.[1]

Powers of the University Council

9.
(a) The Council has the power to do the following, in accordance with this Act and in accordance with the main policies determined by the Council for Higher Education or the Minister responsible for matters relating to higher education:[1]
(1) To govern and control the University.[1]
(2) To appoint University employees or other persons to positions of responsibility within the University.[1]
(3) To establish and dissolve colleges, faculties, centers, schools, divisions, institutes, and similar bodies in order to achieve administrative and academic objectives.[1]
(4) To manage and control the financial affairs of the University.[1]
(b) In all matters relating to the University, the Council shall act in a manner that, in its opinion, best promotes the interests of the University.[1]

Delegation of the Council's Powers

10.
(a) Except for the matters mentioned in subsection (b) of this Article, the Council may delegate other matters to a member of the Council or an employee of the University. However, the Council shall remain the responsible party for matters so delegated.[1]
(b) The following matters shall not be delegated by the Council to another party:[1]
(1) The appointment of Deputy Vice-Chancellors.[1]
(2) The approval of the University's strategic plan and budget.[1]
(3) The approval of the University's annual report.[1]
(4) The review of the University's governance.[1]
(5) The oversight of business transactions of the University or an entity controlled by the University that could cause significant loss or adverse effect on the University's finances and activities.[1]
(6) The disposal in any form of the University's immovable property.[1]
(c) A power delegated to another party under this Article may be revoked by the Council.

Members of the Council

11.
The Council shall be composed of the following persons:
(a) 2 (two) members by virtue of their office;
(b) 8 (eight) members appointed by the Minister responsible for matters relating to higher education from a list of at least 16 (sixteen) persons proposed by the Council;
(c) 8 (eight) elected members;
(d) One person appointed by the Council for a term determined by the Council, if the Council deems it necessary.

Qualifications for Council Members

12.
A person appointed as a member of the Council must meet the following qualifications:
(a) Be at least 18 years of age.
(b) Not have been convicted by a court of law of a crime for which a hadd is prescribed in Islam or a crime of treachery.
(c) Notwithstanding the provision in subsection (a) of this Article, the age of the member referred to in Article 13(k) of this Act need not be the age specified in subsection (a) of this Article.
(d) Be a Muslim and a follower of the Sunni sect.
(e) Be of sound mind.
(f) Possess the academic standard, competence, and work ethic to be able to perform the responsibilities and duties of a member of the University Council.
(g) Not hold a position in a political party.
(h) Not be a person who has been declared bankrupt.

Ex-Officio Members

13.
The following members appointed by the President of the Republic by virtue of their office shall be included in the Council:
(a) The Chancellor of the University;
(b) The Vice-Chancellor of the University.

Elected Members

14.
The following members are elected to the University Council:
(a) One person elected from among the Deputy Vice-Chancellors and Pro-Vice-Chancellors;
(b) 1 (one) Senate member elected by the Academic Senate of the University;
(c) One person elected from among the Deans of the faculties and the heads of the centers;
(d) 2 (two) persons elected from among the other teaching staff, excluding the persons mentioned in Article 13 of this Act, the Deputy Vice-Chancellors and Pro-Vice-Chancellors, and the heads of colleges, faculties, centers, and similar bodies;
(e) One person elected from among the administrative staff of the University;
(f) One person elected from among the alumni of the University;
(g) One student elected from among the students who are not involved in the administrative work or teaching of the University.

Responsibilities of the University Council

15.
The responsibilities of the University Council shall be performed in accordance with the main policies determined by the National Council for Higher education or the Minister responsible for matters relating to higher education. The responsibilities of the University Council are set out below:
(a) To plan, design, and formulate policies for the affairs of the University in order to achieve the objectives of the University.
(b) To conduct various courses and award diplomas, bachelor's, master's, and doctoral degrees, and other certificates and awards.
(c) To appoint and dismiss University employees.
(d) To establish branches of the University within the University or in other areas.
(e) To plan and manage the University's budget.
(f) To make and implement regulations necessary to achieve the objectives of the University.
(g) To determine fees, charges, and fines, and to provide financial aid and loans to students.
(h) To develop the University's inventions, products, and discoveries for commercial purposes.
(i) To establish committees and boards for the planning, management, and research of the University's affairs.
(j) To establish and develop relations with educational institutions in the Maldives and abroad.
(m) To promote and develop employees in accordance with the regulations of the University.
(d) To establish procedures for conducting business transactions that facilitate the achievement of the University's objectives.
(t) To determine how the following matters will be conducted:
(1) University entrance examinations.
(2) Student selection and admission of students to the University.
(3) Designing of academic programs.
(4) Curriculum planning and development.
(5) Conducting examinations and awarding certificates.
(6) Maintenance of the information system.
(7) Management of the University's financial affairs.
(8) Establishment, development, and maintenance of the University's libraries.
(l) And to do such other things as are necessary to achieve the objectives of the University.

Chapter 3
Responsibilities of Council Members

President of the Council

16.
The Chancellor is the President of the Council. The following are the responsibilities of the President of the Council:
(a) To determine the agenda of the Council meetings and to preside over them.
(b) To present the decisions of the Council to the relevant parties.
(c) To uphold the rules of the Council meetings.
(d) To be accountable to the Ministry responsible for matters relating to higher education in matters concerning the University.

Vice-President of the Council

17.
The Vice-Chancellor is the Vice-President of the Council. The following are the responsibilities of the Vice-President of the Council:
(a) To perform the duties of the Chancellor in the absence of the Chancellor.
(b) To inform the Chancellor of the activities of the University.
(c) To present the University's budget, administrative matters, and teaching plans to the Council.
(d) To manage the administrative and academic affairs of the University in accordance with the decisions of the Council.

Council Members

18.
The responsibilities of the Council members are to do the following:
(a) To attend the meetings of the Council and the committees of the Council of which they are a member.
(b) To present their skills and experience with diligence and honesty to assist in the work of the Council.
(c) To act to promote the interests of the University, taking into account the work of the University.
(d) Not to use their position to obtain a personal benefit or to obtain a benefit for another person, or to cause harm to the University or to another person.
(e) To protect information obtained by virtue of their position, and not to use such information for personal gain or for the gain of another person, or to cause harm to the University or to another person.
(f) If a member has a personal interest in a matter being discussed in the Council, to inform the Chair of the Council of that fact and not to attend such a meeting. And even if instructed to attend by the Chair, not to participate in the voting.
(g) In making decisions regarding business matters, to make decisions in the interest of the University honestly and without personal gain, in the light of all available information.
(h) To perform the responsibilities and duties of the Council as a member of the Council with good intentions and sound judgment.

Secretary of the Council

19.
The Secretary of the Council is an employee of the University appointed by the Council, who is not a member of the Council. The responsibilities of the Secretary of the Council are to do the following:
(a) To record, safeguard, and maintain the minutes and decisions of the meetings of the Council and the committees of the Council.
(b) To communicate the decisions of the Council to the various parties as required.

Chapter 4
Term of Council Members and Method of Election

Term of Membership

20.
The term of membership shall be as follows:
(a) Members who are on the University Council by virtue of their office shall remain members of the Council as long as they hold those offices.
(b) The 8 (eight) members appointed by the Minister responsible for matters relating to higher education shall remain in office as members for a period not exceeding 4 (four) years, for a term determined at the time of appointment.
(c) With the exception of the member mentioned in Article 13(k) of this Act, the term of membership for other members elected to the Council is 2 (two) years. The term of membership for the member mentioned in Article 13(k) is 1 (one) year.

Nomination Committee of the Council

21.
The list mentioned in Article 11(b) of this Act shall be compiled by the Nomination Committee of the Council. That committee shall be composed of the following members:
(a) The Chancellor;
(b) The Vice-Chancellor;
(c) 6 (six) members appointed by the Chancellor in accordance with a procedure determined by the Council.

How the Nomination Committee will compile the list of names

22.
(a) The nomination list submitted for the appointment of the members mentioned in Article 11(b) of this Act must include the names of at least 16 (sixteen) persons.
(b) The Nomination Committee shall include persons with a variety of professional skills when compiling the nomination list.
(c) The nomination list compiled by the Nomination Committee shall not include the name of any of the following persons:
(1) A member of the People's Majlis;
(2) A permanent employee of the University;
(3) A student of the University;
(4) A member of the Nomination Committee.

Appointment of members from the list of the Nomination Committee

23.
Within 15 (fifteen) days of receiving the nomination list of the Nomination Committee, the Minister responsible for matters relating to higher education shall appoint 8 (eight) members from among the members on that list who, in the Minister's opinion, are best suited to promote the interests of the University.

Method of electing members

24.
(a) The procedures for the election to be held to elect the members of the Council mentioned in Article 13 of this Act shall be determined by the Council.
(b) When an election is to be held, the Council shall appoint an Election Officer to carry out that work.
(c) The Election Officer shall conduct the election matters in accordance with the procedures determined by the Council.

Persons entitled to vote

25.
(a) In the election of a member to the Council from among the Deputy Vice-Chancellors and Pro-Vice-Chancellors, only the Deputy Vice-Chancellors and Pro-Vice-Chancellors shall be entitled to vote.
(b) In the election of a member to the Council from the Academic Senate, only the members of the Academic Senate shall be entitled to vote.
(c) In the election of a member to the Council from among the Deans, only the permanent heads of the colleges, faculties, or centers shall be entitled to vote.
(d) In the election of a member to the Council from among the teaching staff, only permanent employees who have spent the past year in the teaching profession at the University at the time the names of the candidates for that election are submitted, and who are still engaged in teaching at the time the election is being held, shall be entitled to vote.
(b) In the election of a member to the Council from among the persons working in the administrative section, only permanent employees who have spent the past year in the administrative work of the University at the time the names of the candidates for that election are submitted, and who are still engaged in administrative work at the time the election is being held, shall be entitled to vote.
(f) In the election of a member to the Council from among the alumni, only members of the Alumni Association shall be entitled to vote.
(g) In the election of a member to the Council from among the students, only students registered in long-term courses determined by the Council shall be entitled to vote.

Vacation of a member's seat

26.
If any of the following circumstances befall a member of the Council, the seat of that member shall become vacant:
(a) Failure to attend 3 consecutive Council meetings without a valid excuse, despite having been summoned to the meeting.
(b) Submission of a resignation in writing to the Chancellor, and the receipt of that letter by the Chancellor.
(c) Conviction and sentencing by a court of law for a criminal offense.
(d) Becoming insane.
(e) Death.
(f) Being appointed to a position that results in the loss of Council membership.
(g) A resolution passed by a two-thirds majority of the Council that the member is not performing the duties required of a member of the Council.
(h) A resolution passed by a two-thirds majority of the Council that the member is incapable of performing the duties required of a member of the Council.
(i) It being proved after being elected to the Council that the member does not meet the qualifications for membership.

Resignation

27.
(a) If a member from among the members specified in Article 11(a) of this Act wishes to resign, he shall state this in a letter and submit it to the President of the Republic, and upon receipt of that letter by the President of the Republic, that member is deemed to have resigned from that position.
(b) If a member from among the members specified in Article 11(b), (c), and (d) of this Act wishes to resign, he shall state this in a letter and submit it to the Chancellor of the University, and upon receipt of that letter by the Chancellor, that member is deemed to have resigned from that position.

Appointment and election of members to a vacant seat

28.
(a) If the seat of a member appointed to the Council becomes vacant, a member shall be appointed to that seat by the body that appointed that member, upon being notified of the vacancy.
(b) If the seat of a member elected to the Council becomes vacant, a new election shall be held and a member shall be elected to that seat.

Chapter 5
Council Meetings

Chair

29.
The Chancellor of the University shall preside over the meetings of the Council. If the Chancellor is unable to attend, the Vice-Chancellor shall preside. If both the Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor are unable to attend, the meeting shall be chaired by a person elected by the members present from among themselves.

Quorum

30.
A meeting of the Council may be held when the quorum for the meeting is met. The quorum for a meeting of the Council shall be met when at least more than half of the members of the Council are present.

Voting

31.
(a) Except for matters relating to employees and finance, matters shall be passed by the Council by the consensus of the members present. If, in this manner, the members present cannot reach a consensus, the matter shall be decided by a vote.
(b) Matters relating to employees and finance shall be decided by a vote.
(c) If any matter has to be decided by a vote of the Council, that matter shall be decided by a majority of the members present.
(d) When voting on a matter in the Council, each member present shall have 1 (one) vote. The Chancellor of the University or the member presiding shall have a vote only in the event of a tie in a vote taken in the Council.
(e) A secret ballot shall be taken on any matter to be decided by a vote of the Council if a member so requests, or if the Chair deems a secret ballot necessary.
(f) No absent member, nor any person on behalf of such a member, may cast a vote in deciding a matter by a vote of the Council.

Deciding matters without holding a meeting

32.
(a) In very special circumstances, the Chancellor or the Vice-Chancellor may request the members in writing to decide a matter without holding a meeting.
(b) A copy of the letter requesting that a matter be decided, and the letter requesting that a decision be made without a meeting, shall be sent to every member of the Council.
(c) A decision so made shall be deemed to have been passed when more than half of the members entitled to vote have signed this decision and sent it to the Chancellor or the Vice-Chancellor.
(d) If a member of the Council has a personal interest in the decision referred to in subsection (c) of this Article, he shall not sign that document.
(e) Information regarding decisions made without holding a meeting shall be given at the next earliest Council meeting.

Chapter 6
Senior Officers of the University

Chancellor

33.
(a) The Chancellor of the University shall be appointed and dismissed by the President of the Republic.
(b) The term of office of the Chancellor is 5 (five) years. However, this Article does not preclude the President of the Republic from dismissing him from office at any time during this period if he deems it necessary.
(c) The responsibility of the Chancellor is the responsibility of the President of the Council, as stated in Article 15 of this Act.

Vice-Chancellor

34.
(a) The Vice-Chancellor of the University shall be appointed and dismissed by the President of the Republic.
(b) The term of office of the Vice-Chancellor is 5 (five) years. However, this Article does not preclude the President of the Republic from dismissing him from office at any time during this period if he deems it necessary.
(c) The Vice-Chancellor is the most senior official who manages the academic, scholarly, and administrative affairs of the University in accordance with the principles decided by the Council. The responsibilities of the Vice-Chancellor are to do the following:
(1) To act as the Vice-President of the University Council.
(2) To manage and supervise all affairs of the University, to maintain the educational and academic standards of the University, and to develop the University.
(3) To manage the work of formulating the University's development projects and budget.
(4) To arrange for information about the University to be available to the students, employees, and other parties of the University.
(5) To arrange for the most beneficial use of the University's employees, finances, property, buildings, and other assets.
(6) To appoint, dismiss, train, assign to various tasks, and provide for the advancement of employees, in accordance with the decisions of the Council.
(7) To establish a system for monitoring the performance and quality of work of the University's employees in writing.
(8) To obtain resources for the work of the University from within and outside the University.
(9) To represent the University in its internal and external activities.
(10) To submit reports on the functioning of the University to the Council at specified intervals.
(11) To publicize the policies and decisions of the University through the media.

Deputy Vice-Chancellors and Pro-Vice-Chancellors

35.
(a) In accordance with this Act, Deputy Vice-Chancellors and Pro-Vice-Chancellors shall be appointed and dismissed by the Council.
(b) The term of office and responsibilities of the Deputy Vice-Chancellors and Pro-Vice-Chancellors shall be determined by the Council.

Temporary appointment of persons to perform the duties of the office of Vice-Chancellor or Deputy Vice-Chancellor

36.
(a) The Council is empowered to appoint a person to temporarily perform the duties of the office of Vice-Chancellor or Deputy Vice-Chancellor in the following circumstances:
(1) The office of Vice-Chancellor or Deputy Vice-Chancellor becomes vacant.
(2) The person holding the office of Vice-Chancellor or Deputy Vice-Chancellor is out of the country or is unable to perform the duties of the office for any other reason.
(b) A person appointed on a temporary basis shall not be kept in that position for a period longer than 6 (six) months.

Chapter 7
Financial Matters

Financial Year

37.
The financial year of the University is 12 (twelve) months, beginning on 1 (one) January.

Finances of the University

38.
(a) The funds required to carry out the responsibilities of the University shall be disbursed to the University from the state's finances each year.
(b) Any aid given to the University by any person, association, or government shall be accepted only with the permission of the Council and only for the purpose of carrying out matters included within the objectives of the University.
(c) The University may generate income in various ways for the purpose of carrying out matters included within the objectives of the University.
(d) The University is entitled to spend the money received by the University in the following ways, in accordance with a procedure decided by the Council. This money shall be spent only for the purposes of the University.
(1) Fees and money collected from students and employees in various ways.
(2) Money received from transactions conducted under this Act to generate income for the University.

Obtaining money as a loan

39.
(a) The University may obtain money as a loan only with the approval of the Council, for an amount and a period determined by the Council.
(b) No immovable property of the University shall be mortgaged.

Fees

40.
A fee shall be charged for a course conducted by the University or for a service provided by the University in accordance with the principles determined by the Council.

Expenditure from finances

41.
Expenditure may be made from the finances of the University in accordance with the principles determined by the Council, only for the purpose of carrying out the matters necessary to achieve the objectives of the University.

Exemption from paying tax

42.
No tax shall be levied on the property of the University or property dedicated to achieving the objectives of the University, except from a company in which the University participates.

Financial Audit

43.
The accounts relating to the income, expenditure, property, and financial liabilities of the University shall, with the consultation of the Auditor General, be written, maintained, and audited in accordance with the regulations made by the Council, and a financial statement prepared thereafter shall be sent, along with the annual report referred to in Article 54 of this Act, to the President of the Republic, the People's Majlis, and the Minister responsible for matters relating to higher education.

Chapter 8
Regulations of the University

Making Regulations

44.
(a) For the purpose of implementing the articles of this Act or for the purpose of making the best use of this Act, the Council is empowered to make regulations in a manner not contrary to Islamic Shari'ah, this Act, and any other law of the Maldives.[1]
(b) The power vested in the Council by subsection (a) of this Article includes making regulations for the following and other such matters:[1]
(1) The sound management of the University and the maintenance of the University's discipline.[1]
(2) In the event of a violation of a regulation made under subsection (b)(1) of this Article, the determination of administrative penalties to be imposed on the students and employees of the University by the University or by a party appointed by the University.[1]
(3) The determination of the methods for holding the elections specified in this Act, and the methods for dealing with complaints submitted in connection with the elections.[1]
(4) The determination of the technical staff of the University.[1]
(5) The determination of the undergraduate and postgraduate students of the University.[1]
(6) In relation to the various councils of the University, the determination of the following matters:[1]
(a) The methods for holding, canceling, and postponing meetings, and the times at which meetings will be held.[1]
(b) The method of voting at meetings.[1]
(c) The procedures for disclosing financial matters at Convocation meetings.[1]
(d) The method of appointing persons to the chair, and their powers and responsibilities.[1]
(e) The method of conducting meetings, and the method of maintaining records of meetings.[1]
(f) The method of establishing various committees.[1]
(g) The quorum for meetings of committees, and the powers and responsibilities vested in those committees.[1]
(7) The determination of the methods by which the Deputy Vice-Chancellor will assume and exercise the responsibilities and powers of the Vice-Chancellor in special circumstances.[1]
(8) If the term of an employee who manages an office or a place established under this Act or under a regulation made under this Act is not specified in this Act, or if the opportunity to determine the term by means other than a regulation is not given in this Act, the determination of the term of such a position or employment and the method of giving that employment.[1]
(9) The determination of all matters relating to the employment of the University's employees.[1]
(10) The appointment of persons to responsible positions in the University, and the determination of the term, qualifications, and methods of dismissal from those positions.[1]
(11) The determination of the method of admitting students to the University.[1]
(12) The determination of the methods, times, places, numbers, and types of lectures, classes, and examinations.[1]
(13) The determination of matters for the development and expansion of the University's teaching.[1]
(14) The awarding of certificates and honors of various levels.[1]
(15) The awarding of fellowships, scholarships, and financial aid.[1]
(16) The awarding of credit points for a prior course of study or other work, after assessing the academic weight of that work, in lieu of a subject required to be completed to obtain a certificate.[1]
(17) The admission of members to the Convocation.[1]
(18) The admission of persons who are studying or have studied at another educational institution to a level of the University that is equivalent to their studies.[1]
(19) The determination of the various fees payable by students to the University.[1]
(20) The establishment and management of libraries, laboratories, and museums in connection with the University.[1]
(21) The construction of hostels or participation in hostels run by another party.[1]
(22) The University becoming a part of, or the University participating in, educational or academic institutions.[1]
(23) The control and investment of the University's assets.[1]
(24) The provision of superannuation and other benefits to senior staff of the University, their families, and other employees.[1]
(c) The Council or another office of the University may be empowered by regulations made under this Act to determine various principles, orders, and instructions for the purpose of conducting a particular matter, or to facilitate its conduct, or to implement regulations, or to make good use of regulations, in a manner not contrary to this Act and any regulation of the University.
(d) The principles, orders, and instructions referred to in subsection (c) of this Article shall have the same force as regulations.

Publication of Regulations

45.
(a) If the Council passes any regulation of the University:
(1) The seal of the University shall be affixed to that regulation.
(2) That regulation shall be published in the University Gazette.
(3) From the date of publication of that regulation, the same power as is available for the enforcement of the University's law shall be available for the enforcement of that regulation.
(b) When publishing regulations in the University Gazette, each regulation shall be numbered in a particular order.
(c) If the Council passes any regulation of the University, that regulation shall come into force from the date of its publication in the University Gazette, or from the date specified in that regulation for it to come into force.

Chapter 9
Transitional Provisions on the Establishment of the University

Repeal of the College's Basic Regulations

46.
Upon the commencement of this Act, the basic regulations of the College are repealed.

Interim University Council

47.
(a) Upon the commencement of this Act, the College Council that existed in the College shall become the Interim Council of the University.
(b) Until a person is appointed to the post of Chancellor of the University by the President of the Republic, the person holding the post of President of the College Council that existed in the College shall be the Interim Chancellor of the University.
(c) Until a person is appointed to the post of Vice-Chancellor of the University by the Council, the person holding the post of Rector of the College shall be the Interim Vice-Chancellor of the University.
(d) Within 6 (six) months of the commencement of this Act, the University Council shall be constituted in accordance with Article 10 of this Act, and the Interim Council shall be dissolved.

College Staff and Students

48.
Upon the commencement of this Act, the employees of the College shall become employees of the University, not included in the civil service. And the students shall become students of the University.

Transfer of College Principles

49.
Upon the commencement of this Act, the policies, regulations, and instructions passed by the College Council and the committees established by it shall, if not inconsistent with this Act, have legal status as the policies, regulations, and instructions of the University until a change is made by the University Council.

Transfer of College Property and Debts

50.
Upon the commencement of this Act, the property and debts of the College shall be transferred to the property and debts of the University.

College Land and Buildings

51.
At the time of the commencement of this Act, the lands and buildings registered in the name of the College are the lands and buildings of the University belonging to the state.

Unfinished Matters

52.
If at the time of the commencement of this Act, any matter or transaction in which the College was a party is unfinished, the University shall be the party to that matter or transaction in place of that institution. And all the powers and rights vested in the College shall be vested in the University.

Chapter 10
Miscellaneous

Valid Decisions

53.
(a) The following written decisions, which are made in a manner not contrary to the law, shall be considered valid decisions of the University:
(1) Decisions of the Council.
(2) Decisions of the committees established by the Council.
(3) Decisions of the Chancellor or the Vice-Chancellor.
(b) A decision made by a person or a committee shall not be invalid due to the invalidity of the appointment of the Chancellor or the Vice-Chancellor, or the presence of a person who has been elected to a committee contrary to the regulations, or the constitution of a committee being contrary to the regulations, or the failure to elect a member who should have been elected to the Council, the Senate, or a committee.

Entering into Contracts

54.
If the University enters into a contract with a private party or a private company or any other party, that contract shall be in writing in accordance with Shari'ah and legal principles, and shall bear the seal of the University.

Academic Senate

55.
(a) An Academic Senate shall be established under a regulation of the Council as the supreme committee to consult on, direct, and oversee the academic and scholarly affairs of the University.
(b) The Senate referred to in subsection (a) of this Article shall be composed of the following persons:
(1) The Vice-Chancellor.
(2) The Deans of the faculties under the University and the heads of the other centers under the University, appointed by virtue of their office.
(3) Members elected by the University.
(4) Members appointed for their knowledge and experience, in order to contribute their opinions to consultations.
(c) In order to effectively perform the responsibilities of the Senate, the method of appointing or electing members of the Senate, the number of members, the term of membership, and the methods for holding meetings shall be determined by a regulation passed by the Council.
(d) The responsibilities of the Senate are the following:
(1) To consult on and submit proposals to the Council on matters necessary for the development of academic affairs, student admission, examinations, academic research, the awarding of certificates, the maintenance of the University's discipline, and the achievement of the University's objectives.
(2) To submit reports to the Council on the work assigned to the Senate by a regulation of the Council and on special matters sent by the Council.
(e) The Senate is vested with the power necessary to perform its responsibilities. However, the following matters shall be decided by the Council:
(1) The establishment of a collaborative relationship with an academic institution.
(2) The establishment or dissolution of a college, faculty, or similar body.

Annual Report

56.
(a) An annual report compiled on the activities of the University shall be sent by the Council to the President of the Republic, the People's Majlis, and the Minister responsible for matters relating to higher education before the 1st day of April of each year.
(b) The annual report mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall include the following matters that took place during the period of the report:
(1) A brief summary of the important activities indicating the status of the University.
(2) The members of the Council and the committees established by the Council, their attendance, and the important matters decided.
(3) The activities conducted to raise the standard of teaching and learning.
(4) A summary of statistics on the University's courses, employees, and students.
(5) Other information that the Council decides to include in the report.
(c) The report mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be made public and published by the Council within 14 (fourteen) days of being sent to the President of the Republic, the People's Majlis, and the Minister responsible for matters relating to higher education.

Performing the duties of a position in lieu

57.
If there is no person in a position that is stated in this Act to be responsible for doing certain things, those things shall be done by the person who has been assigned to perform the duties of that position.

Proposing amendments to the Act by the Council

58.
An amendment to this Act may be proposed to the People's Majlis by the Council only if the proposed amendment is submitted to a meeting of the Council and two-thirds of the members participating in that meeting are in favor of making the amendment.

Counting of days

59.
If a period is specified in days in this Act, those days shall be counted excluding official holidays.

Commencement of the Act

60.
This Act shall come into force on the date of its passing, ratification, and publication in the Gazette of the Maldivian Government.

Transitional Matters

61.
(a) Within a maximum of 30 (thirty) days from the commencement of the 2nd amendment to Act No. 3/2011 (The Maldives National University Act), members shall be appointed to the first University Council constituted under this Act, and after the election of the members who are to be elected, that Council shall be reconstituted.
(b) The work of organizing and arranging the constitution of the Council in the manner stated in subsection (a) of this Article shall be carried out by an interim committee appointed for that purpose by the Chancellor of the University.
(c) The committee mentioned in subsection (b) of this Article shall be composed of the Chancellor, the Vice-Chancellor, and 4 (four) members appointed by the Chancellor from among the persons holding positions in the University.
(d) Upon the reconstitution of the Council as stated in subsection (a) of this Article, the committee mentioned in subsection (b) of this Article is dissolved.
(e) Until the Council is reconstituted under subsection (a) of this Article, the Council that existed before the commencement of the 2nd amendment to Act No. 3/2011 (The Maldives National University Act) shall continue to exist.

Definitions of words and phrases

62.
Unless the context otherwise requires in this Act:

"Council" means the University Council established to govern The Maldives National University.

"Vice-Chancellor" means the most senior person appointed to manage the University.

"Senate" means the Academic Senate.

"Securities" means a document issued, excluding a bill of exchange, as an investment instrument to the person holding it or to a registered party, for use in a securities exchange or market or in a field generally accepted for that purpose.

"University" means The Maldives National University.

"College" means all campuses, faculties, centers, offices, and similar places belonging to the Maldives College of Higher Education. However, "Kulliyyah al-Dirasat al-Islamiyya," as mentioned in Article 2(a) and (b) of this Act, is not included within the meaning of "College."

"Educational institution" includes all places that provide educational or academic services and all centers and institutions that conduct academic research.

"Chancellor" means the Chancellor of The Maldives National University.

"Dean" means the most senior academic employee appointed for a specified period to manage a faculty of the University.

"National Council for Higher Education" means the council established by the President of the Republic to formulate and coordinate all policies related to higher education.

"Minister responsible for matters relating to higher education" means the minister of the government ministry to which the responsibility for implementing the policies related to higher education in the Maldives is assigned at any given time.

