The Law on Honours of the Maldives

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This is the law concerning the conferring of insignias of honour, other honours, medals, and titles by the Maldivian state to individuals.

(b) This law shall be cited as the "Law on Honours of the Maldives."

Conferring of Insignias of Honour and Other Honours

    The conferring of insignias of honour, other honours, medals, and titles by the Maldivian state to individuals shall be in accordance with the provisions of this law.

Conferring Authority

    The President of the Republic shall determine and confer upon individuals all honours, medals, and titles given by the Maldivian state. The President of the Republic of the Maldives is the highest authority of every honour mentioned in this law.

Insignia of Honour

    An insignia of honour is an honour conferred by the state, along with an insignia or medal, in accordance with this law to recognize a person's national service or to value their international service. Furthermore, an insignia of honour may also be conferred to value a person's service to all of humanity.

Names of the Insignias of Honour

    The Maldivian state shall confer the following insignias of honour:

    (a) The Grand Order of the Distinguished Rule of Ghazi (N.G.I.V.): This is the highest honour conferred by the Maldivian state. This honour is attributed to As-Sultan al-Ghazi Muhammad Thakurufaanu al-A'uẓam, Siree Savaadheetha Mahaaradhun.

    (b) The Grand Order of the Distinguished Rule of Izzuddin (N.I.I.V.): This honour is attributed to As-Sultan al-Ghazi Hassan Izzuddin, Siree Kularanmeeba Katthiri Bavana Mahaaradhun.

    (c) The Grand Order of the Distinguished Rule of Dharumavantha Maharadhun (N.D.M.I.V.): This honour is attributed to As-Sultan Muhammad ibn Abdullah, Siree Bavanaadheetha Mahaaradhun.

    (d) The Grand Order of the Distinguished Rule of Shaheed Ali (N.S.A.I.V.): This honour is attributed to As-Sultan Ali (the 6th), Siree Auda Siyaka Katthiri Mahaaradhun.

    (e) The Grand Order of the Distinguished Rule of Iskandhar (N.I.I.V.): This honour is attributed to As-Sultan Ibrahim Iskandar, Siree Kularanmeeba Katthiri Bavana Mahaaradhun.

    (f) The Grand Order of the Military Service (N.A.V.): This is an honour conferred upon individuals who have performed special, significant military services for the safety of the nation and its people, and for the protection of a nation's independence and sovereignty, and upon those who have served at an international level, whether militarily or for the maintenance of world peace. This honour may also be conferred upon martyrs who have sacrificed their body and soul in the service of the military, and to any military person who has shown an exemplary model in their jihad.

Other Honours, Medals, and Colours

    In addition to the insignias of honour mentioned in this law, the President of the Republic has the authority to establish other honours, medals, titles, and colours to be conferred upon individuals by the Maldivian state, and to confer such honours, medals, and colours.

Privileges and Benefits Associated with Honours

    The President of the Republic has the authority to determine the privileges and benefits associated with the honours, medals, titles, and colours conferred by the Maldivian state, and to grant such privileges and benefits.

Conferring Honour Upon a Deceased Person

    Even if a person deemed worthy of an honour, medal, title, or colour by the Maldivian state is deceased, that honour, medal, title, or colour may be conferred upon that person.

Use of the Honour of 'Kilege'

    Among those who have been conferred the honour of 'Kilege', those from whom the honour has not been revoked may use the honour of 'Kilege' in conjunction with their name.[1]

Use of "Al-Ghazi" Before the Name

    Those who have received the Nishan Ghazi's Order of Honour may use "Al-Ghazi" before their names.

Use of Symbolic Letters After the Name

    Persons who have received an insignia of honour may use the symbolic letters of that honour after their name.

Use of the Name of the Honour After Death

    After the death of a person who has received an honour under this law, the name and letter of the honour received by that person may be used in conjunction with their name.

Revocation of Honour

    If a person who has received an honour mentioned in this law is convicted in a court of law of a crime for which a hadd is prescribed, or is convicted of an act against the state, or of participation in an act against the state, that honour shall be revoked from that person.

Damaging or Misusing a Medal

    No person shall damage or misuse a medal conferred upon any person.

Repealed Laws

    Upon the commencement of this law, Law No. 3/70J (Law on Honours Conferred upon Persons in the Maldives) and Law No. 21/79 (Law on the Revocation of the Honour of 'Kilege' from a list of living persons who had been conferred it) are hereby repealed.


