Tobacco Control Act

Introduction and Name

    (a) This is an Act to control the use of tobacco in the Maldives, by prohibiting the cultivation of tobacco and the advertising of tobacco products; and to establish the principles regarding the methods of importing and exporting tobacco products, the methods of their wholesale and retail sale, the methods of packaging, wrapping, and labeling tobacco products, the taxation of tobacco products, the protection of non-tobacco users from tobacco smoke, the provision of necessary information and training to remain free from the dangerous epidemic of tobacco, and the provision of treatment for individuals addicted to tobacco use.
    (b) This Act shall be cited as the "Tobacco Control Act".

Chapter One
Protection from Tobacco Smoke

Right to be Protected from Tobacco Smoke

    Every person has the right to keep oneself away from and be protected from tobacco smoke exhaled by another person.

Places Where Tobacco Use is Prohibited

    The use of tobacco is prohibited in the following places:
    (a) Workplaces or parts or sections of workplaces specified in the regulations made under this Act.
    (b) Cinemas and conference halls.
    (c) All vehicles and places used for public transport, or parts or sections thereof, as specified in the regulations made under this Act.
    (d) Tea shops, cafes, restaurants, food preparation and sales establishments, or parts or sections of such places, as determined by the regulations made under this Act.
    (e) Mosques, healthcare facilities, educational institutions, childcare and development centers, their open grounds, all buildings within their premises, their compounds, and service-providing places connected to their compounds with entry and exit points.
    (f) All buildings and compounds where government offices operate, as determined by the regulations made under this Act.
    (g) Sports buildings, courts, fields, and stadiums.
    (h) All places determined by the regulations made under this Act.

Action Against Using Tobacco in Prohibited Areas and in Violation of a Permit

3-1. (a) If a person uses tobacco in a place completely prohibited by Article 3 of this Act, and if that place is one that provides a business or service, in addition to taking action against the person who committed the act and the owner or operator of the place under Article 29 of this Act, the Ministry has the authority to request the relevant government authority to temporarily suspend or revoke the business license issued to that place.
(b) If a person uses tobacco in a place permitted under the regulations of this Act but in violation of that permit, and if that place is one that provides a business or service, in addition to taking action against the person who committed the act and the owner or operator of the place under Article 29 of this Act, the Ministry has the authority to take the following measures against the operator of the place:
(1) Revoke the permit issued under this Act for tobacco use in that place;
(2) Request the relevant government authority to temporarily suspend or revoke the business license issued to that place.
(c) The Ministry shall revoke a permit issued under this Act for tobacco use or request the relevant government authority to temporarily suspend or revoke a business license under this Article only in accordance with the procedures specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Protection of the Reporter

    Upon a report to a relevant authority that a matter mentioned in this chapter has been violated, or upon a request by any person or employee for the right to be protected from tobacco smoke exhaled by another person, the owner of the place or the party managing and operating the public transport vehicle, or a person appointed by them, shall not take action against or retaliate against the person making such a report.

Prioritizing the Rights of Non-Tobacco Users

    In interpreting the articles of this chapter, special attention must be given to protecting the rights of non-tobacco users and such employees. And if, at any time, a question arises as to whether tobacco use is permissible in a particular place, the matter shall be decided by giving precedence to the rights of non-tobacco users.

Chapter Two
Sale, Cultivation, and Production of Tobacco and Tobacco Products

Prohibition of Tobacco Products and Production for a Specific Age Group

    (a) No person born on or after 1 January 2007 shall use any tobacco product or tobacco production.
    (b) No party shall sell a tobacco product or tobacco production to any of the following persons:
    (1) Any person born on or after 1 January 2007;
    (2) Any person who has not reached the age of 21 (twenty-one).
    (c) No person shall involve a person specified in section (b) of this Article in a transaction for the sale of a tobacco product or a tobacco production.

Responsibilities of Sellers of Tobacco Products

6-1. (a) No person shall sell a tobacco product or a tobacco production except with a license issued under Article 28 of this Act and in a place registered under this Act.
(b) No person shall sell or offer for sale any tobacco product or production in a manner where the buyer is unknown, such as from a vending machine, through the post, online, or any other self-service method.
(c) The principles to be established to ensure the matters stated in subsection (b) of this Article shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.
(d) When selling a tobacco product or production in a place licensed to sell such items, it is the responsibility of the seller to ensure that the buyer is not a person specified in Article 6(b) of this Act. And if a person buying a tobacco product appears to be such a person, the seller shall not sell the tobacco product to any person until after requesting them to show their national identity card or any other valid official document indicating their age, and after they have shown such a document.

Display of a Notice Indicating the Prohibition of Sale of Tobacco Products

    Parties engaged in the business of tobacco products must display, in a manner visible to the public, a warning that complies with the principles and standards set by the Ministry, stating that the sale of any tobacco product or production to a person specified in Article 6(b) of this Act is prohibited by law.

Prohibition of Advertising at the Point of Sale of Tobacco Products

    (a) The seller of any tobacco product shall not advertise it. And in places where tobacco products are sold, no tobacco product, or a box or carton containing a tobacco product, or any other such item in which such things are packaged, shall be displayed in a manner visible to the public. And such an item shall not be transported from one place to another in a manner visible to the public.
    (b) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this Article, displaying items prepared in a way that identifies them as a tobacco product, or a box, carton, or other packaging containing any tobacco product, in a manner generally visible to the public in places where tobacco products are sold, or carrying them from one place to another in a manner visible to the public, shall be considered advertising of those items.

Prohibition of Producing Other Items from Tobacco Products

    No person shall produce, distribute, sell, or display in a manner that could be interpreted as for sale, any tobacco product in the form of a toy, a food item, or any other such object.

Prohibition of Cultivating Tobacco and Producing Tobacco and Tobacco Products

    (a) It is prohibited to grow any type of tobacco plant in any quantity, or to produce tobacco in any quantity in the Maldives.
    (b) It is prohibited to import into the Maldives any part of a tobacco plant that can be used for its cultivation, including the tobacco plant itself and its seeds.
    (c) It is prohibited to produce any type of tobacco product in the Maldives.
    (d) It is prohibited to import into the Maldives machinery and tools specifically designed for the production of tobacco products.

Prohibition on Importing Electronic Cigarettes and Vaping Devices into the Maldives

10-1. (a) It is prohibited to import into the Maldives electronic cigarettes and similar devices used for vaping, and products manufactured for use with such devices.
(b) Any person who violates subsection (a) of this Article shall be fined MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand). In addition, a fine of MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) shall be imposed for each electronic cigarette or vaping device imported by that person into the Maldives.

Prohibition of Sale, Free Distribution, and Use of Electronic Cigarettes and Vaping Devices

10-2. (a) It is prohibited to sell electronic cigarettes and similar devices used for vaping, and products manufactured for use with such devices, in the Maldives.
(b) It is prohibited to distribute for free electronic cigarettes and similar devices used for vaping, and products manufactured for use with such devices, in the Maldives.
(c) It is prohibited to possess or use electronic cigarettes and similar devices used for vaping, and products manufactured for use with such devices, in the Maldives.
(d) Any person who violates subsection (a) of this Article shall be fined MVR 20,000 (twenty thousand). In addition, a fine of MVR 10,000 (ten thousand) shall be imposed for each electronic cigarette or vaping device sold by that person.
(e) Any person who violates subsection (b) of this Article shall be fined MVR 10,000 (ten thousand).
(f) Any person who violates subsection (c) of this Article shall be fined MVR 5,000 (five thousand).
(g) If an electronic cigarette, a similar vaping device, or a product manufactured for use with such a device is sold or distributed for free to a minor in violation of subsections (a) and (b) of this Article, the person shall be fined MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand) in addition to the fines under subsections (d) and (e) of this Article.

Seizure and Disposal of Electronic Cigarettes and Vaping Devices

10-3. (a) If a person is seen possessing or using an electronic cigarette or a similar vaping device in a public place, the police have the authority to seize such a device in accordance with Article 29-1 of this Act.
(b) If any person imports an electronic cigarette or a similar vaping device into the Maldives, Customs officers have the authority to seize the item in accordance with Article 29-2 of this Act.
(c) Devices seized under subsection (a) or (b) of this Article shall be dealt with in accordance with the procedures specified in Article 29-3 of this Act and in the manner described therein.

Chapter Three
Packaging and Labeling of Tobacco Products

Providing and Disclosing Information about Tobacco

    (a) Every person has the right to receive complete information about the adverse effects of tobacco products on health and the potential harm to non-tobacco users from smoke exhaled by other tobacco users. Receiving complete information means not creating any obstacle or difficulty for those who wish to obtain such information and not using deception and fraud in the labeling and packaging of tobacco products.
    (b) Parties that import tobacco products into the Maldives and parties that sell tobacco products shall act in accordance with the following regarding boxes, packets, cartons, and any other such items in which tobacco products are packaged:
    (1) When packaging tobacco products in a packet, a warning phrase about the health damage from tobacco use, along with any other required phrase, and if there is an image or a symbol, such an item must be printed on the outside of the packaging of the tobacco product, visible from the outside, in accordance with the standards set by the Ministry. The Ministry may also order the labeling of packets and cartons containing tobacco products according to a specific model.
    (2) Every item in which a tobacco product is packaged must indicate the details of the constituents contained in the tobacco product therein, the substances it emits, and the amount of substances determined by the Ministry contained in each item.
    (3) No phrase, drawing, or any other such thing that could be misleading about a tobacco product or its health damage or the substances it emits, whether directly or indirectly, or with the intent to deceive, shall be included on any item.
    (c) The warning phrase and other phrases mentioned in subsection (b)(1) of this Article must be written and printed in Dhivehi or English, in accordance with the principles set by the Ministry.
    (d) The meaning of importing tobacco products as stated in subsection (b) of this Article does not include the bringing of a tobacco product by passengers arriving in the Maldives from abroad for their personal use.
    (e) For the purpose of subsection (d) of this Article, "passengers arriving in the Maldives from abroad" refers to citizens of foreign countries and Maldivian citizens.

Labeling of Tobacco Products

    The following information must be printed in English on the exterior of every box, packet, carton, or any other item in which a tobacco product is packaged:
    (a) The name and license number of the manufacturer or company.
    (b) The serial number specific to the manufacturer and the date of manufacture.
    (c) The country and city of manufacture.
    (d) And any information stated in the regulations made under this Act.

Compliance with Regulations and Treaties by Importers or Sellers of Tobacco Products

    Even if parties importing tobacco products into the Maldives and selling them in the Maldives act in accordance with this chapter, there will be no leniency regarding their responsibilities stated in other regulations and principles they must adhere to and respect, and in international treaties to which the Maldives is a party, in order to encourage the provision of information about the harm caused by tobacco products.

Chapter Four
Advertising, Sponsorship, and Other Promotions of Tobacco Products

Prohibition of Advertising Tobacco Products

    (a) No person shall advertise, sponsor, or conduct a promotional activity for a tobacco product. Nor shall they organize or participate in any such activity.
    (b) The exceptions to subsection (a) of this Article are:
    (1) Transactions between parties that cultivate, produce, import, export, and sell tobacco products;
    (2) [Translator's Note: Section (2) is missing in the source text.]
    (3) Business information documents issued specifically for the company's employees, shareholders, and investors, in a manner that does not encourage the sale of tobacco products and does not include the purpose of advertising tobacco products.

Prohibition of Free Distribution of Tobacco Products

    The free distribution of tobacco products for the purpose of business promotion and the distribution of such products or items that could be considered samples thereof to the public is prohibited. The group that carries out such an act and the group that participates in conducting such an activity will both be guilty.

Standards for What is Considered Advertising of Tobacco Products

    For the purpose of advertising tobacco products, the name, drawing, image, slogan, or any item that signifies such a product, or even a part of such an item, shall not be displayed in a way that is visible to the public. And on any item that is not a tobacco product, including buildings and other such places and things, a name, drawing, image, slogan, or an item that signifies a tobacco product, or a part of such an item, shall not be placed for the purpose of advertising a tobacco product and displayed for sale or advertising in a way that is visible to the public.

Changing the Registered Name of Tobacco Products or Brands

    From the date this Act comes into force, a name registered for use for a tobacco product, or a name commonly used for a tobacco product or a device for using tobacco, or even part of such a name, shall not be given to an item or place that does not include tobacco products. And a name registered at any time for an item or place that is not a tobacco product, or a name used for such a place or item, shall not be given to a tobacco product.

Taking Action Against Parties that Illegally Advertise, Sponsor, or Promote

17-1. (a) It is prohibited for any person to advertise, promote, or sponsor a tobacco product in violation of the standards set forth in this Act regarding the advertising, sponsorship, and promotion of tobacco products.
(b) If any person advertises, promotes, or sponsors a tobacco product in the Maldives in violation of subsection (a) of this Article, in addition to taking action against the person who committed the act and the owner or operator of that place under Article 29 of this Act, the Ministry has the authority to take the following measures against the operator of that place:
(1) Revoke the license issued under this Act to conduct the business of tobacco products in that place;
(2) Request the relevant government authority to temporarily suspend or revoke the business license of that place.
(c) A license issued by the Ministry under this Act for the business of tobacco products shall be revoked, or a request to the relevant government authority to temporarily suspend or revoke the business license of that place under this Article shall be made, in accordance with the procedures specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Chapter Five
Taxation

Taxation

    Tobacco and tobacco products imported for sale in the Maldives, all substitutes for tobacco, and all devices used for tobacco use shall be subject to import duty as specified in Law No. 31/79 (Maldives Export Import Act) and any taxes payable under relevant laws.

Chapter Six
Maintaining the Quality of Tobacco Products

Dealing in Tobacco in Violation of the Law and Regulations

    No person shall import tobacco or any tobacco product into the Maldives, export it from the Maldives, or distribute or sell it in the Maldives in violation of this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

Tobacco Products Considered Less Harmful to Health Compared to Other Tobacco Products

    Before the Ministry grants permission upon being convinced, by the submission of reliable analysis results or evidence, that a tobacco product is less harmful to health compared to other tobacco products, it shall not be written or printed on the packet of an item containing a tobacco product that the product is less harmful to health than other tobacco products or in a way that implies such a thing. When granting permission in this manner, in addition to other matters, the following shall be considered:
    (a) Results of reliable analyses demonstrating that the tobacco product is less harmful to the health of the user or to others from its smoke compared to other similar products.
    (b) Evidence that the product helps users of tobacco to increase the interval between uses or facilitates quitting, or evidence that the product, after considering the extent to which it encourages non-tobacco users to start using it, can be considered beneficial to the health of the population as a whole.

Chapter Seven
Reporting Information on Constituents in Tobacco Products, their Emissions, and Business Information

Submission of a Report on Tobacco

    Every person who imports tobacco products into the Maldives must prepare a report containing the information specified in this chapter and submit it to the Ministry, in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

Information to be Included in the Report

    Parties selling tobacco products used for tobacco consumption and tobacco products used for other purposes in the Maldives, and parties exporting from the Maldives, must list each such product in the report by its brand name and include the following information about each item:
    (a) The amount of tar and nicotine content, and the proportion of free (unbound) nicotine in the smoke.
    (b) The pH level of tobacco smoke and details of the pH level in smoke exhaled on various occasions.
    (c) The effectiveness of the filter and the filtration ratio as a percentage.
    (d) The proportion of toxic substances like tar in the smoke emitted from the tobacco, and unless otherwise specified in the regulations under this Act, the proportion of various substances or their ratio compared to nicotine or another standard mentioned in the regulations.

Tobacco Products for which a Report Must be Prepared

    The report shall be compiled for tobacco products that have been prepared and tested in accordance with the standards mentioned in the regulations made under this Act.

Tobacco Products Not Previously Sold in the Maldives

    Tobacco products that have not been sold or introduced to the market in the Maldives before the implementation of this Act shall only be sold or introduced to the market after submitting all required reports related to the product and obtaining permission from the Ministry.

Additional Information to be Included in the Report

    In addition to the parts required to be included in the report under this chapter, every party importing tobacco products into the Maldives and every party exporting from the Maldives must, in a specified manner, submit the following information to the Ministry at least once every year, unless otherwise stated in the regulations made under this Act. Furthermore, all information required to be in such a report by the regulations made under this Act must also be included.
    (a) The number of bidi, cheroots, cigarettes, tobacco packets, or other items used for tobacco consumption imported or exported during the reporting period, and the weight of tobacco products imported or exported for purposes other than tobacco consumption, with the amount of money received from the sale of each type shown separately.
    (b) If a tobacco product was exported from the Maldives,
    (1) The quantity of each product exported, by brand name, names of destination countries, and names of wholesale parties.
    (2) The number of packets or boxes if the shipment includes a product for tobacco consumption, and its weight in grams if it is a product for another purpose.
    (3) The date the tobacco product was exported and the serial numbers assigned to individual shipments.
    (c) If a tobacco product was imported into the Maldives,
    (1) The quantity of each product imported, by brand name, names of manufacturing countries, and name of the wholesale party.
    (2) A list of transit destinations used for transporting the tobacco products to the Maldives and the serial numbers assigned to them.
    (3) The number of packets of tobacco products for consumption in the imported shipment, or its weight in grams if it is a product for another purpose.
    (4) The date the items were imported and the serial numbers of the imported shipment.
    (d) The price at which the exporter sold the item, changes in brand prices during the reporting period, and the names of those brands.
    (e) A copy of the audit report of the places where tobacco products are traded during the reporting period.
    (f) A sample of the box containing the tobacco product and a sample of the labels affixed to it.
    (g) Other information as stated in the regulations made under this Act.

Public Disclosure of Information

    The information collected under this chapter, as specified in the regulations made under this Act, shall be public information available to the public. And the reports on tobacco products submitted to the Ministry as specified in this chapter shall be publicly published as official documents of the Ministry.

Format of the Report

    The report mentioned under this chapter shall be submitted in a format specified in accordance with the standards mentioned in the regulations made under this Act.

Chapter Eight
Issuance of Permits

Requirement to Obtain a License for the Business of Tobacco Products

    (a) Every party that imports tobacco products into the Maldives and exports them from the Maldives, and every party that sells tobacco products wholesale or retail in the Maldives must, in addition to the business permit issued by the relevant government authority, possess a valid license issued by the Ministry under this Act.
    (b) The license mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall include licenses issued for the following types of businesses:
    (1) License to sell tobacco products wholesale or retail;
    (2) License to import tobacco products;
    (3) License to re-export tobacco products.
    (c) The license mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article cannot be issued solely for conducting a tobacco-related business.
    (d) An application for the license mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be submitted to the Ministry in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
    (e) The principles related to the issuance of the license under subsection (a) of this Article, matters to be considered in issuing the license, the duration of the license, procedures for license renewal, conditions for license issuance, principles for license renewal, license fees, and other principles related to license issuance shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Conducting the Business of Tobacco Products Without a License

28-1. (a) It is prohibited to conduct any type of tobacco business in the Maldives without a valid license to trade in tobacco products as specified in this Act and the regulations made under this Act.
(b) For the purpose of this Article, conducting a business of tobacco products refers to businesses as specified in Article 28(b) of this Act, and includes any other transaction that constitutes a purchase and sale of a tobacco product.
(c) If any type of tobacco business is conducted without obtaining a valid license for the business of tobacco products as specified in this Act and the regulations made under this Act, in addition to taking action against the owner or operator of that place under Article 29 of this Act, the Ministry has the authority to take the following measures against the operator of that place:
(1) Revoke the license issued under this Act to conduct the business of tobacco products in that place;
(2) Request the relevant government authority to temporarily suspend or revoke the business license of that place.
(d) A license issued by the Ministry under this Act for the business of tobacco products shall be revoked, or a request to the relevant government authority to temporarily suspend or revoke the business license of that place under this Article shall be made, in accordance with the procedures specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Chapter Nine
Penalties for Violation of the Law and Regulations

Enforcement of the Law, its Implementation, and Penalties for Violations

    In enforcing this Act or taking action against parties who violate this Act, action may be taken against individual acts or collectively, considering the violations committed by that party against this Act. Measures that may be taken in this regard are:
    (a) Temporarily suspending, revoking the permit issued for dealing in tobacco, and suspending specific activities included in the permit.
    (b) (1) A fine of an amount between MVR 1,000 (one thousand) and MVR 1,000,000 (one million) in accordance with the regulations made under this Act. If the act committed by the fined party involves dealing in non-permitted types of tobacco, conducting non-permitted business, smuggling, failing to disclose or misrepresenting information required at the import and export stage, or violating principles for packaging, wrapping, and labeling, the amount of the fine shall be determined as 10 (ten) times the total sum obtained by adding the applicable taxes and fees at that stage to the value of the goods related to the act. And if the resulting total amount is less than MVR 1,000 (one thousand), the fine amount shall be MVR 1,000 (one thousand).
    (2) An on-the-spot fine and the fine-ticket must be handed over to the fined party by a person authorized to do so. And such a fine shall be imposed only after disclosing to the fined party that the person is officially authorized to do so.
    (3) If the fined party is dissatisfied with a fine imposed in accordance with subsection (b)(1) of this Article, that party has the right to appeal the matter.
    (c) To protect the public from tobacco smoke, if a provision in the articles of this Act is violated, an authorized person may remove such a person from the place where such an act is being committed and temporarily take control of or seize the items used to commit the illegal act.
    (d) Items used to commit an illegal act may be brought under the control of an authorized party and destroyed in an environmentally friendly manner. Such items include:
    (1) Any item possessed intentionally or unknowingly in violation of an article in this Act concerning the advertising, sponsorship, and promotional activities of tobacco products;
    (2) Any item, machine, or document in one's possession that can be used for packaging and labeling tobacco products in violation of the established principles for packaging or labeling, or for violating an article of this Act, whether knowingly or unknowingly;
    (3) Other types of tobacco products and items in the possession or under the control of the person who violated the law, and machinery and tools specifically for the production of tobacco products;
    (4) Equipment, machinery, and items used for labeling, packaging, and other activities to produce counterfeit goods or to smuggle tobacco-related items;
    (5) Any type of tobacco on which duty has not been paid and any type of tobacco imported from another country in violation of Maldivian law and regulations; and
    (6) Any tobacco product prepared in violation of the standards specified in this Act and its regulations for tobacco products, and counterfeit tobacco products placed somewhere in the Maldives by a group of people, whether intentionally or otherwise.

Procedure for Taking Action in Relation to the Use or Possession of Electronic Cigarettes and Vaping Devices

29-1. (a) If a police officer sees any person possessing or using an electronic cigarette or a similar vaping device in a public place, that item shall be seized under Article 10-3 of this Act only after confirming that the item is an electronic cigarette or a similar vaping device and not a tobacco heating product or any other thing, and with the completion of the following procedures:
(1) Stop the person suspected of violating the law, disclose that the officer is a person authorized to take necessary measures to enforce this Act, and state the act believed to have been committed by that person in violation of this Act;
(2) In order to confirm whether the device found on the person suspected of violating the law is an electronic cigarette or a similar vaping device as described in subsection (a) of this Article, order the person to hand over the item to the officer, and state clearly that if they do not comply with the order, the item can be seized from them, and if they do not cooperate, a reasonable amount of force may be used to do so;
(3) If the person objects to handing over the device found on the person suspected of violating the law as ordered under sub-paragraph (2) of this subsection, seize the item from that person and proceed in accordance with sub-paragraph (4) of this subsection;
(4) After examining the device in the possession of the person suspected of violating the law, and if it is confirmed that the person possessed an electronic cigarette or a similar vaping device, state that the act committed by that person is an act prohibited under the law, and as a result, the device can be seized and brought under the custody of the police, and that person can be fined, and then proceed as follows:
(i) Impose the fine prescribed in the law and hand over the document of such a fine;
(ii) Inform that the device possessed or used in violation of the law is being taken into their custody, and hand over the document stating that the device has been taken into police custody.
(b) When a police officer authorized to do so takes action against a person suspected of violating the law, and when ordered under subsection (a)(2) of this Article to hand over the device found on that person, if they do not hand it over, the device shall be seized from their possession, and force shall be used against that person in doing so only to the extent necessary to seize the item from their possession.

Procedure for Taking Action in Relation to the Importation of Electronic Cigarettes and Vaping Devices into the Maldives

29-2. (a) If any person imports an electronic cigarette or a similar vaping device into the Maldives, the item may be seized by Customs officers or police officers in accordance with this Article.
(b) An electronic cigarette or a similar vaping device seized under subsection (a) of this Article may be seized from a shipment imported into the Maldives or while being illegally imported in any other way.
(c) An electronic cigarette or a similar vaping device seized under subsection (a) of this Article may be seized from passengers arriving in the Maldives or from the luggage of any such person.
(d) If the power mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article is used in relation to a shipment imported into the Maldives, it shall be by Customs officers in accordance with Chapter 6 of Law No. 8/2011 (Maldives Customs Act).
(e) If the power mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article is used in an attempt to illegally import the item into the Maldives not for importation, it shall be by police officers in accordance with the regulations made by the Maldives Police Service under this Act.
(f) An electronic cigarette or a similar vaping device imported into the Maldives shall be seized under this Article only after confirming that the item is an electronic cigarette or a similar vaping device and not a tobacco heating product or any other thing.
(g) In seizing an electronic cigarette or a similar vaping device under subsection (c) of this Article, law enforcement officers must complete the procedures specified in Article 29-1(a) of this Act.
(h) For the purpose of subsection (c) of this Article, passengers' luggage shall be checked and inspected if a luggage scanning machine indicates the presence of such an item in their luggage.
(i) After an electronic cigarette or a similar vaping device imported into the Maldives is seized by a law enforcement agency under subsection (a) of this Article, it shall be dealt with in accordance with the procedures specified in Article 29-3 of this Act and in the manner described therein.

Procedures to be Completed for the Custody and Disposal of Electronic Cigarettes and Vaping Devices after Seizure

29-3. (a) For every electronic cigarette or a similar vaping device seized under Article 29-1 or Article 29-2 of this Act, the law enforcement officer who seized the item shall record the following information in writing on the same date:
(1) Information of the person from whom the device was seized;
(2) The date, place, and time the device was seized;
(3) Details of the seized device (including brand and model of the device);
(4) Details of the condition of the device when it was seized (whether it was an empty device or if it included the device's refill container and other parts, those details);
(5) The manner in which the procedures for providing necessary information and warnings under Article 29-1 and Article 29-2 of this Act were completed before seizing the device and during its seizure;
(6) If force had to be used to seize the device, that fact and details of how the force was used;
(7) The fact that the device was handed over to the relevant department under subsection (b) of this Article after seizure, the time of handover, and the name and service number of the officer who received it.
(b) Every electronic cigarette or a similar vaping device seized under Article 29-1 or Article 29-2 of this Act, after being brought under the custody of the law enforcement agency as stated in that article, must be handed over on the date of seizure to the relevant department of that agency designated for the custody of illegally seized items.
(c) After every electronic cigarette or a similar vaping device seized under Article 29-1 or Article 29-2 of this Act is seized and brought under the custody of the law enforcement agency, its chain of custody shall be maintained by the law enforcement agency in accordance with the regulations made under this Act until the item is disposed of as specified in this Act.
(d) Items brought under the custody of the law enforcement agency under this Article must be disposed of by that agency within a maximum of 45 (forty-five) days, in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
(e) In addition to recording in writing the information related to every electronic cigarette or a similar vaping device seized under Article 29-1 or Article 29-2 of this Act, as per subsection (a) of this Article, statistics of such seized and disposed items must be sent to the Ministry at least once every 45 (forty-five) days.
(f) The regulations mentioned in subsection (d) of this Article shall be made by the Maldives Police Service if they relate to procedures to be completed by the police, and by the Maldives Customs Service if they relate to procedures to be completed by the Maldives Customs Service.
(g) The law enforcement agencies, as mentioned in subsection (f) of this Article, must ensure that the principles and procedures included in the regulations they formulate are uniform. And the regulations must include at least the following matters:
(1) Procedures to be followed by relevant officers of the law enforcement agency in seizing devices, and procedures to be followed when handing over those items to the relevant department;
(2) Procedures for maintaining the chain of custody of such devices, including procedures for entry into the relevant department of the law enforcement agency, their transport from that department to another place, and how to proceed until disposal;
(3) Principles and procedures for the disposal of such devices, including recording the information of the officer authorizing their disposal;
(4) Principles for maintaining records of seized and disposed devices and procedures for disclosing relevant information under this Act.

Separate Punishment for Each Offense

    Every act committed in violation of the law and every act committed to violate the law shall be considered a separate offense. And for each offense committed, a punishment appropriate to that offense shall be given separately.

Increased Punishment for Repeated Offenses

    The punishment given for each repeated offense under this Act shall be increased from one time to the next.

Money and Fines Obtained Through Court Proceedings

    In addition to seizing money through court proceedings from a person for non-payment of a tax or duty payable under this Act or another law due to an act committed directly or indirectly, that person shall have to pay a prescribed fine for the offense they committed.

Responsibility of Superiors

    The superior of a place that has acted in violation of this Act, or a superior who has permitted or encouraged such an act, or a superior who, knowing that an act required by this Act has not been done or that an act is being committed in violation of this Act, shall also bear responsibility for such an act.

Responsibility of Manufacturers and Suppliers of Tobacco Products

    If parties that manufacture and export tobacco products in their own country fail to pay the taxes and duties required by the countries through which the goods pass en route to their intended destination, or if the goods are deemed to have been smuggled, the responsibility for this shall be borne by the manufacturer or the supplier of the goods.

Chapter Ten
Enforcement of the Law

Enforcement of the Law

    (a) Every government agency shall enforce the articles of this Act that are related to the area entrusted to it. And attention must be paid to the optimal enforcement of the matters stated in those articles, and in order to comply with international tobacco control treaties to which the Maldives is a party, the regulations related to that matter must be enforced.
    (b) For the purpose of enforcing this Act, to monitor the actions of parties acting in violation of this Act, and to investigate such matters, take action, and enforce compliance with this Act, government agencies required to enforce the articles of this Act shall appoint a superior under the head of that agency to carry out that work and grant that person full authority and power.

Chapter Eleven
Establishment of a Board to Control Tobacco

Establishment of the Tobacco Control Board

    (a) A board named the "Tobacco Control Board" shall be established by the President of the Republic as an institution to work at the national level. This Board shall be chaired by the Minister.
    (b) The Board shall consist of the following members:
    (1) Representatives from relevant government ministries.
    (2) Experts in tobacco control.
    (3) Public health experts.
    (4) Persons concerned with consumer rights.
    (5) Representatives of civil and business associations.

Role

    (a) The role of the Tobacco Control Board is to provide advice and consultation on matters concerning the protection of people from tobacco. This includes providing advice and consultation on the following matters:
    (1) Identifying the overall impact of tobacco use and exposure on the health of the population and the changes in individual health, and conducting studies on this matter.
    (2) Formulating the regulations to be made under this Act and establishing technical standards.
    (3) Assessing the extent to which the objectives of this Act and its regulations are achieved and amending any part that needs to be amended at the time.
    (4) Determining and formulating the actions to be taken at the national level regarding tobacco control and advising the Cabinet.
    (5) Coordinating the anti-tobacco work carried out by ministries, government agencies, and voluntary organizations.
    (6) Encouraging the implementation of actions that need to be taken under the authority granted to the President of the Republic or the Minister regarding tobacco control.
    (b) A report shall be submitted once a year to the Cabinet to advise on matters monitored and overseen by the Board, on actions that can be taken for tobacco control, and on matters deemed appropriate by the Board. In addition, reports to be submitted at meetings of countries that are parties to tobacco-related treaties shall be compiled and prepared.
    (c) No person who is a manufacturer, importer, exporter, wholesaler, retailer of a tobacco product, or any person connected to a tobacco-related business, or a person representing such a party, shall be appointed to this Board. And such a person shall not serve a term as a member of this council.
    (d) The Board members shall formulate its operating regulations, determine how decisions are made, and amend these parts. All these parts shall be written and made publicly available in a manner accessible to the public.
    (e) Committees comprising technical experts may be appointed to provide advice and consultation to this Board on technical matters or on specific designated matters.

Chapter Twelve
Public Awareness Regarding the Harms of Tobacco and Facilitating Cessation for Those Addicted to Tobacco

Planning and Conducting Robust Awareness Activities

    Relevant government agencies shall plan and conduct robust activities to inform the public about the harm caused by tobacco production and its use to health, the economy, the environment, and society, and to raise public awareness about it. Such activities shall include the following:
    (a) Providing the public with information about all harms of tobacco.
    (b) Informing tobacco users of the benefits of quitting.
    (c) Making arrangements for information on the tobacco trade to be publicly available in accordance with laws and regulations.
    (d) Providing tobacco control information and training to healthcare providers, social workers, journalists and media professionals, law and regulation enforcers, and other relevant parties.
    (e) Involving relevant government and private sector agencies and associations in the work to increase awareness about tobacco and assisting them in their work towards this end.

Facilitating Cessation for Those Addicted to Tobacco

    The government's Ministry of Health and other relevant parties shall work to facilitate cessation for people addicted to tobacco.
    (a) Informing tobacco users of the benefits of quitting tobacco use.
    (b) To help people addicted to tobacco to overcome it and to provide them with treatment, a separate department or clinic shall be established in healthcare facilities or at a place designated by the Ministry of Health. In such a place, all relevant information, counseling, and necessary medical treatment services for those who want to quit shall be available. This includes medicines, means of delivering medicines, and facilities for analysis.

Chapter Thirteen
Miscellaneous Matters

Period for Establishing the Board

    The President of the Republic shall establish the Tobacco Control Board mentioned in Chapter Eleven of this Act within 60 (sixty) days from the date of ratification of this Act.

Commencement of the Act

    All regulations and principles to be made under this Act shall be formulated and finalized within 12 (twelve) months from the date the President of the Republic ratifies this Act, and this Act shall come into force.

Making Regulations

14-1. Unless otherwise stated in this Act, all regulations to be made under this Act for its enforcement shall be made by the Ministry.

Definitions

    Unless the context otherwise requires in this Act:
    (a) "Ministry" refers to the government ministry entrusted with the responsibility of managing health-related affairs.
    (b) "Minister" refers to the minister of the government ministry entrusted with the responsibility of managing health-related affairs.
    (c) "Vehicles and places used for public transport" refers to, in circumstances specified in the regulations made under this Act, vehicles that transport people from one place to another on a commercial basis or for a fee or fare, places that must be used at various stages of such transportation, and other such vehicles and places determined by the regulations under this Act. Even if no fee or fare is charged, the transport of a person or persons from the public from one place to another in connection with a specific occasion, event, or other social activity or responsibility is also included in this definition. Vehicles used solely for transporting goods and fishing vessels are excluded from this definition unless they transport a person or persons on a commercial basis or for a fare.
    (d) "Advertising" refers to the public dissemination of information about tobacco products, their brands, manufacturers, and sellers through various means on a commercial basis, both directly and indirectly, and promotional activities conducted to sell tobacco products or brands, to increase their sales volume, or to promote the act of tobacco use. The definition of tobacco advertising includes words, names, phrases, slogans, letters, numbers, images, drawings, designs, logos, colors, and other such things, as well as sound, songs, melodies, and music, related to tobacco products, brands, manufacturers, and sellers or that refer to such parties or things.
    (e) "Public places" refers to places where people move about or can come and go without any obstruction, places where the public gathers to stop or for other purposes, vehicles and similar things used in such a manner, and public places determined by the regulations made under this Act.
    (f) "On a commercial basis" refers to doing something to promote a business or to achieve a business objective.
    (g) "Sale" refers to offering or giving an item to a person or group for a price or by setting a price.
    (h) "Person" refers to any entity with legal personality. This includes individuals, companies, and places defined as a person in another law.
    (i) "Workplace" refers to any place, whether covered by a roof or other similar means or enclosed or shielded by a wall, walls, a partition, partitions, or other similar means, where a person works or is employed for remuneration or on a voluntary basis. This includes, in addition to the main work area, connected areas used by workers during work hours such as elevators, corridors, stairs, lobbies, toilets, lounges, cafeterias, canteens, and tea rooms. Places used for residential purposes are not included among workplaces unless they are used for commercial purposes or to provide a public service. And in defining a workplace, an entire island will not be considered a workplace.
    (j) "Promotion and promotional activities" refers to activities conducted to increase the sales of tobacco products, including but not limited to advertising, such as distributing tobacco-related items, giving them as gifts, and activities conducted for business promotion.
    (k) "Tobacco" refers to all types of tobacco plants and the leaves of those plants.
    (l) "Tobacco products" refers to tobacco and tobacco stems, nicotine, and things prepared containing tobacco, tobacco stems, and nicotine. And any product prepared in a way that any amount of any of these items is absorbed into the body by chewing, drinking, sniffing, or by attaching, placing, or rubbing it on a part of the body is a tobacco product. Notwithstanding this statement, nicotine replacement therapy or other similar products used as treatment for tobacco cessation, which are prescribed as part of "cessation" therapy and approved by relevant professional bodies, shall not be considered tobacco products for the purposes of this Act.
    (m) "Tobacco production" refers to the preparation of fresh tobacco leaves in various ways for use in tobacco manufacturing, such as curing tobacco by air, sun, or fire heat, or by any other means.
    (n) "Use of tobacco" refers to inhaling or exhaling smoke or vapor from a tobacco product through the mouth or nose, or putting a tobacco product in the mouth, chewing, eating, or drinking it, or sniffing a tobacco product, or absorbing it into the body by attaching, placing, or rubbing it on a part of the body in any other way.
    (o) "Device used for tobacco use" refers to all items used to introduce smoke, vapor, or any other substance from a tobacco product into the user's body.
    (p) "Tobacco sponsorship" refers to indicating in any way, at any place, a partnership or connection between a manufacturer, seller, or marketer of any tobacco product, directly or indirectly, with the following, and using anything that symbolizes such a tobacco-related party in any form in any such activity, item, or place:
    (1) Entertainment activities, sports tournaments, academic and literary activities, cultural and fashion-related events, and other such types of works, activities, and shows, films, videos, drawings, and audios;
    (2) Clothing, uniforms, and equipment used by a group or person participating in any such event, and related social media accounts;
    (3) Activities held on any social media and digital platform, and in public places or places where people gather;
    (4) Buildings, educational institutions, open lands, and public places;
    (5) Other matters and places mentioned in the regulations made under this Act.
    (q) "State institutions" refers to all state institutions and offices, companies in which the government holds shares, legal entities run by the government, and all places that perform official government duties.
    (r) "Tobacco plant" refers to plants of the species Nicotiana tabacum and Nicotiana rustica.
    (s) "Superiors" refers to the most senior person in a place or the person to whom their responsibility has been delegated temporarily or permanently, and the person entrusted with overseeing a place at a particular time. This includes the person in charge of a public service establishment at that time.
    (t) "Persons addicted to tobacco" refers to persons who, due to nicotine in tobacco or for any other reason, become habituated to its regular use and become physically and psychologically dependent on the nicotine in tobacco.
    (u) "Tobacco smoke" refers to the smoke, vapor, and all other substances emitted during the use of tobacco.
    (v) "Electronic cigarettes and similar devices used for vaping" refers to all devices designed for inhaling vapor containing nicotine or other substances through the mouth. This includes devices designed to be refilled via a refill container or tank or a single-use cartridge, or designed to be disposed of after a single use, and cartridges and tanks for such devices manufactured separately without the device, nicotine-containing refill containers, and other individual parts of such devices. This definition does not include a heated tobacco product or a tobacco heating product.
    (w) "Heated tobacco product" refers to tobacco sticks or other tobacco products that emit an aerosol containing nicotine or nicotine and other chemicals when heated.
    (x) "Tobacco heating product" refers to any device prepared to heat a tobacco stick or other tobacco product placed in it without combustion, and to allow the aerosol containing nicotine or nicotine and other chemicals produced by such heating to be inhaled through the mouth and absorbed into the body.
    (y) "Production of a tobacco product" refers to producing a tobacco product for sale or for provision on a commercial basis in any other way. In this definition, the word "production" is used in the sense of "manufacturing". This definition does not include the actions an individual takes to prepare a tobacco product for their own personal use.
    (z) "Machinery and tools specifically for the production of tobacco products" refers to mechanical or automatic machinery and tools designed and marketed for use in the processing and preparation stages of tobacco products to produce an item defined as a "tobacco product" in this Act, and designed exclusively for that purpose. This includes tools used to condition tobacco or add additives to tobacco leaves, machinery used to remove stems from tobacco leaves, tools used to shred leaves for further processing, machinery used to reduce the moisture content of tobacco, machinery used to add flavors or additives to enhance the aroma or taste of tobacco, machines and equipment used to pack tobacco products, and machinery that rolls tobacco into paper, wraps it in the form of a cigarette or bidi or similar item, and packs it for tobacco use. This definition does not include devices brought by passengers arriving in the Maldives from abroad for their personal use, which are manufactured for personal use.
