Transitional Justice Act
Chapter One: Introduction

1. Introduction and Title

(a) This is an Act to establish a system for seeking justice for victims of past wrongs. It will address acts committed in a systematic manner by a state institution or its senior officials against the human rights and fundamental freedoms of the people. The Act covers the period from January 1, 1953, to November 17, 2018, and involves reviewing, investigating, and revealing the truth, and providing solutions to victims under this Act.[1][2]

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Transitional Justice Act".[3]

2. Purpose

The purposes of this Act are to:

(a) Identify cases where a person's or group's human rights or fundamental freedoms have been violated due to a systematically planned act by a current or former senior official of a state institution. It aims to investigate the responsible state institutions and perpetrators to uncover the truth.

(b) Hold accountable the parties responsible for systematically planned acts that violated a person's or group's human rights or fundamental freedoms, as prescribed in this Act. It seeks to provide justice to the victims of these actions through the remedies available under this law.[2]

(c) Identify the reasons for the systematic violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms by current or former senior officials of state institutions. The goal is to identify necessary measures to prevent such acts in the future and to build a civilized state founded on the rule of law.[2]

3. Scope of the Act

This Act shall apply to events that occurred from January 1, 1953, to November 17, 2018.[2][4]
Chapter Two: The Ombudsperson's Office for Transitional Justice

4. Establishment of the Ombudsperson's Office for Transitional Justice

(a) Upon the commencement of this Act, an Ombudsperson's Office for Transitional Justice is hereby established.[3]

(b) The Ombudsperson's Office for Transitional Justice is an independent legal entity with its own seal, possessing the power to sue and be sued, and to engage in transactions in its own name.[2][4]

5. Term of the Ombudsperson's Office

(a) The term of the Ombudsperson's Office shall be a maximum of two (2) years.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Office shall be dissolved upon the completion of its work.

(c) If the President does not believe the work of the Ombudsperson's Office can be completed within the period specified in subsection (a), the President shall, 30 (thirty) days before the expiration of the term, establish a mechanism to complete the Office's work.[5]

6. Composition of the Ombudsperson's Office

(a) The Ombudsperson's Office referred to in Article 4 of this Act shall consist of three (3) Ombudspersons appointed by the President.

(b) From among the Ombudspersons appointed under subsection (a), the President shall appoint one person as the Chief Ombudsperson.[4]

(c) Ombudspersons shall be removed from office by the President.

(d) Within 30 (thirty) days from the date this Act comes into force, the President shall appoint the Ombudspersons under subsection (a), and the Government shall make the necessary arrangements for the Ombudsperson's Office, established under Article 4 of this Act, to commence its work.

(e) In deciding on cases submitted to the Ombudsperson's Office, the Ombudspersons shall strive to reach a unanimous decision. In situations where unanimity cannot be reached, decisions shall be made by a majority of the Ombudspersons.

7. Qualifications of Ombudspersons

(a) A person appointed to the position of an Ombudsperson must meet the following qualifications:
(1) Be a Muslim;
(2) Be a citizen of the Maldives;
(3) Not have been convicted of an offense for which a hadd is prescribed in Islam, a criminal offense, or an offense of fraud;
(4) Be at least 30 (thirty) years of age;
(5) Not be a member of any political party, nor have held any position in a political party within the past three (3) years;
(6) Not be holding an elected office, a government position, or a political position;
(7) Possess the capability to perform the responsibilities of an Ombudsperson as stated in this Act, have obtained at least a first degree in a relevant field, and have at least seven (7) years of experience in that field.

(b) In addition to the qualifications specified in subsection (a), a person appointed as an Ombudsperson must not have participated in any capacity in an act that violates human rights, nor have had such an allegation made against them.

8. Term of Office

Except in cases of removal from office under Article 6(c) of this Act, individuals appointed as Ombudspersons shall remain in office from the date of their appointment until the responsibilities assigned to the Ombudsperson's Office under this Act are fulfilled and the Office is dissolved.

9. Vacancy of Office

(a) The position of an Ombudsperson shall be deemed vacant in the following circumstances:
(1) Death or the occurrence of a condition that renders the person unable to perform the duties of the office;
(2) Resignation;
(3) Removal from membership;
(4) A disqualification for membership arises;
(5) Contesting for a political office elected under the Constitution or a law.

(b) The President shall appoint a person to the vacant position of an Ombudsperson within a maximum of 15 (fifteen) days.

10. Resignation

(a) If the Chief Ombudsperson wishes to resign from the position, they shall submit a letter stating so to the President. Upon receipt of the letter by the President, the person is deemed to have been removed from the position of Chief Ombudsperson.

(b) Even if the Chief Ombudsperson resigns from their position under subsection (a), they shall not be considered to have resigned from their membership of the Ombudsperson's Office.

(c) If a member of the Ombudsperson's Office wishes to resign from membership, they shall submit a letter stating so to the President. Upon receipt of the letter by the President, the member is deemed to have been removed from membership.

11. Removal from Membership

An Ombudsperson may be removed from office by the President, in accordance with Article 6(c) of this Act, if they are found to have committed an act unbecoming of the position of an Ombudsperson, if a situation arises that prevents them from performing their duties, or if they are deemed incapable of performing their duties.

12. Jurisdiction of the Ombudsperson's Office

The Ombudsperson's Office, established under this Act, has the jurisdiction to investigate and take action on cases where a person's or group's human rights or fundamental freedoms have been violated due to a systematically planned act by a current or former senior official of a state institution within the period specified in Article 3 of this Act.

13. Responsibilities of the Ombudsperson's Office

In investigating and taking action on cases within its jurisdiction as stated in Article 12, the Ombudsperson's Office shall perform the following responsibilities:

(a) Identify cases where a person's or group's human rights or fundamental freedoms have been violated due to a systematically planned act by a current or former senior official of a state institution, investigate the responsible state institutions and perpetrators, and ascertain the truth;

(b) Identify the causes that led to the systematic and planned violations of human rights, and determine the nature and scale of these acts;

(c) Identify the state institutions and individuals responsible for such acts where a person's or a group's human rights or fundamental freedoms were violated due to a systematically planned act by a person who was or is a senior official of a state institution, and hold them accountable as specified in this Act;

(d) Following an investigation by the Ombudsperson's Office, forward cases of individuals who have committed acts constituting a criminal offense to the Prosecutor General for criminal prosecution;

(e) Following an investigation by the Ombudsperson's Office, forward cases to the Attorney General to file civil charges against liable parties;

(f) In light of the investigation conducted by the Ombudsperson's Office, identify the systematic violations of human rights and the responsible parties, and facilitate compensation and remedies for the victims under this Act;

(g) Identify the necessary changes to reform the state institutions that participated in the systematic violation of a person's or group's human rights;

(h) Identify the measures that can be taken to ensure that cases of violation of a person's or group's human rights or fundamental freedoms resulting from a systematically planned act by a senior official of a state institution do not occur in the future, and identify the necessary reforms in relation to such matters.

14. Powers of the Ombudsperson's Office

(a) The Ombudsperson's Office shall have the following powers to fulfill its responsibilities and achieve its objectives in relation to investigations conducted under the authority of this Act:
(1) To seek the assistance of all state institutions and other parties in fulfilling the responsibilities of the Ombudsperson's Office and in the investigations it conducts;
(2) To investigate criminal cases; and if a criminal case needs to be investigated in the course of the work being done by the Ombudsperson's Office, to use the power of a law enforcement agency as specified in the Criminal Procedure Act (Law No. 12/2016);
(3) To summon and question any person the Office deems necessary in relation to a case it is investigating;
(4) To bring in relevant foreign parties and seek the assistance of foreign experts as needed to assist in the work and investigations of the Ombudsperson's Office.

(b) In addition to the powers stated in this Act, the Ombudsperson's Office shall have all the powers granted to the commissions specified in the Presidential Commissions Act (Law No. 4/2019) in the performance of its duties.

15. Independent Operation of the Ombudsperson's Office

The Ombudsperson's Office shall work independently, impartially, and free from bias, in a manner that achieves the objectives of this Act.[2]

16. Responsibilities of the Chief Ombudsperson

(a) The responsibilities of the Chief Ombudsperson are stated below:
(1) To provide the necessary advice and guidance to fulfill the responsibilities of the Ombudsperson's Office in a robust and result-oriented manner, in accordance with the Constitution and the law;
(2) To make decisions related to the administration of the Ombudsperson's Office, such as setting the agenda for meetings of the Office and determining the date and time for meetings;
(3) To set an example and establish leadership in the adherence to codes of conduct by the Ombudsperson's Office, Ombudspersons, members, and staff of the Office;
(4) In consultation with the Ombudspersons, to establish procedures for the administration and management of the various administrative tasks of the Ombudsperson's Office, ensure that administrative matters are conducted in accordance with these procedures, and take necessary measures;
(5) To preside over the meetings of the Ombudsperson's Office; and
(6) To implement the decisions made by the Ombudsperson's Office.

(b) In the event the Chief Ombudsperson is unable or unavailable to perform the responsibilities of the position as stated in subsection (a), an acting Ombudsperson shall be appointed through consultation among the Ombudspersons to carry out the responsibilities of the position.

17. Responsibilities of the Ombudspersons

The responsibilities of the Ombudspersons are stated below:

(a) To carry out the responsibilities assigned by the Ombudsperson's Office;

(b) To perform the duties required of an Ombudsperson independently, justly, without partiality, and without yielding to any influence;

(c) To investigate cases that the Ombudsperson's Office decides to look into, to work towards finding an amicable solution in those cases, and to take action in cases where an amicable solution cannot be found and action is required.

18. Code of Conduct for Ombudspersons

The code of conduct to be upheld by Ombudspersons in the performance of their duties is stated below:

(a) To perform the duties required of an Ombudsperson independently, justly, without partiality, and without yielding to any influence;

(b) To uphold the principles of independence and integrity required of an Ombudsperson;

(c) To always act in good faith in carrying out the responsibilities assigned to the Ombudsperson's Office by this Act, and to prioritize the achievement of the Office's objectives and the protection of its interests;

(d) Other than the responsibilities required of an Ombudsperson, not to participate, with or without remuneration, in any other commission, council, assembly, or any other association of the state;

(e) Not to work as a consultant for any state body.

19. Salary and Allowances

The salaries and allowances of the Ombudspersons shall be determined by the People's Majlis.

20. Commencement of Work

(a) Upon the formation of the Ombudsperson's Office, its objectives and responsibilities shall be explained to the general public. Furthermore, the opportunity to submit cases that fall within the Office's jurisdiction under this Act shall be opened to the public. The Ombudsperson's Office shall determine a reasonable period for submitting such cases and announce it publicly.

(b) Among the cases submitted when the opportunity is opened under subsection (a) to submit cases that fall within the jurisdiction of the Ombudsperson's Office under this Act, those that fall within the Office's jurisdiction shall be investigated independently, transparently, and with reasonable speed.

21. Right to a Defense

(a) In cases investigated by the Ombudsperson's Office, the accused person shall be given the opportunity to speak in their defense and, if required, the opportunity to have the assistance of a legal counsel.

(b) If a case investigated by the Ombudsperson's Office includes the suspicion of a criminal offense, the accused person shall be afforded all the rights provided to an accused person under the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives, the Criminal Procedure Act (Law No. 12/2016), and other laws.

22. Compliance with Orders of the Ombudsperson's Office to State Institutions

Refusal to comply with an order issued by the Ombudsperson's Office to a state institution under this Act shall be a criminal offense by the refusing party.

23. Obstruction of Investigation

It is a criminal offense for an accused person or any other party to commit an act that obstructs an investigation conducted by the Ombudsperson's Office, or to exert any other influence. In such cases, the perpetrator may be prosecuted under section 532(a) of the Penal Code of the Maldives (Law No. 9/2014).

24. Special Privilege in Investigating Cases

(a) If any investigation has been conducted by a party other than the Ombudsperson's Office in cases it is investigating, the information, findings, documents, evidence, and other materials from that investigation or otherwise obtained and under the control of that party, shall be shared with the Office upon request.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), cases that are being investigated by a transitional commission established to look into specific types of cases that occurred within the period specified in Article 3 of this Act shall not be investigated by the Ombudsperson's Office established under this Act.

25. Protection for Witnesses and Victims

(a) In cases investigated by the Ombudsperson's Office, witnesses and victims shall be provided with protection in situations where it is required.

(b) The Ombudsperson's Office shall establish a procedure for providing protection to witnesses and victims in situations where it is required, as stated in subsection (a).

(c) If a witness or a victim in a case investigated by the Ombudsperson's Office is a woman, the Office shall establish a procedure on how to act in providing special protection and safety to such a person in situations where protection is required.

26. Providing Opportunity to Victims and Preventing Further Victimization

In investigating and deciding on a case, the Ombudsperson's Office shall ensure the following regarding the victims:

(a) To take steps or make decisions in a manner that does not further victimize the victims;

(b) To treat them with respect, in a manner that does not diminish their dignity;

(c) To take steps or make decisions with reasonable speed and fairness;

(d) Not to disclose the personal information of the victims and their identities;

(e) To give the victim the opportunity to express their views, or to give this opportunity to a person designated by the victim.

27. Procedure for Investigating Cases

(a) The Ombudsperson's Office shall follow the procedure below when investigating a case submitted for investigation or a case submitted seeking compensation under this Act:
(1) After a case is submitted to the Ombudsperson's Office and its investigation is concluded, the highest priority shall be given to reconciling the victim and the perpetrator.
(2) If the victim and the perpetrator, or either of them, do not cooperate with the efforts of the Ombudsperson's Office to reconcile them as per subsection (a)(1), the Office shall explore all possible avenues for reconciliation by speaking with both parties and shall work to reconcile them.

(b) The procedures to be followed by the Ombudsperson's Office in reconciling the victim and the perpetrator, as stated in subsection (a)(1), shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

(c) If, after investigating the cases submitted to the Ombudsperson's Office and attempting to reconcile the victim and the perpetrator as per subsections (a)(1) and (a)(2), the parties cannot be reconciled, the following procedure shall be followed:
(1) Once the investigation into the criminal elements of a case being investigated by the Ombudsperson's Office is complete, if there is sufficient evidence for prosecution, such cases shall be sent to the Prosecutor General's Office for prosecution.
(2) If a case being investigated by the Ombudsperson's Office involves matters of claiming civil damages and recovery of property and money, such cases shall be sent to the Attorney General's Office to take action.
(3) In light of the investigation conducted by the Ombudsperson's Office, it shall identify the systematic violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms committed by a former senior official of a state institution, and the responsible parties, and provide assistance to the victims.

28. Establishing Peace and Reconciliation

(a) After reviewing cases, and taking into account the violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms systematically planned and executed by a former senior official of a state institution, the following steps may be taken to provide solace to those directly victimized by such acts, to build trust between the victims and the state, and to raise public awareness to prevent the recurrence of such acts in the future:
(1) Conduct therapy and support programs to facilitate a dignified and unified life in society for those directly victimized by such acts and for the perpetrators of those acts.
(2) Acknowledge the occurrence of violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms systematically planned and executed by a former senior official of a state institution, and after studying how these acts occurred, assign the task of documenting and publishing the incident based on relevant evidence and documents to a relevant institution.
(3) Assign to a relevant institution the task of establishing memorials or museums so that future generations may learn lessons from the suffering of those directly victimized by such acts.

(b) The standards to be considered and the procedures to be followed in taking the steps specified in subsection (a) for the Ombudsperson's Office to decide upon, and other steps that can be taken to establish peace under this Act, shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

29. Re-investigation of Previously Concluded Cases

(a) When the Ombudsperson's Office investigates cases within its jurisdiction, this Act does not prevent the submission of a case to the institution that had previously made a decision on those events, either through the Ombudsperson's Office or an institution with jurisdiction over the matter, requesting a re-investigation if new evidence emerges or by citing a legal principle or a point of law, in any of the following circumstances:
(1) A decision was made to investigate or not to investigate the case; or
(2) A decision was made to prosecute or not to prosecute the case; or
(3) A decision was made to proceed or not to proceed with the trial of the case; or
(4) The trial of the case has concluded, and a court has issued a judgment.

(b) The Ombudsperson's Office must verify that the legal principle or point of law mentioned in subsection (a) is one that could alter the outcome of the case.

(c) In accordance with subsection (a), if a decision has been made as per subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2), the Ombudsperson's Office may submit a request to the institution that made the decision to reconsider its decision on re-investigating the case.

(d) If the case in which a decision was made as per subsection (a)(3) or (a)(4) is a criminal case, the Ombudsperson's Office shall submit the case to the Prosecutor General's Office to be presented to the court that decided to proceed or not to proceed with the trial or that issued the judgment, requesting a decision on re-investigating the case based on the new evidence, legal principle, or point of law.

(e) If the case in which a decision was made as per subsection (a)(3) or (a)(4) is a civil case, the Ombudsperson's Office shall submit the case to the Attorney General's Office to be presented to the court that decided to proceed or not to proceed with the trial or that issued the judgment, requesting a decision on re-investigating the case based on the new evidence, legal principle, or point of law.

(f) Notwithstanding subsections (d) and (e), if the new evidence, legal principle, or point of law found in relation to a case where a decision was made as per subsection (a) is in the interest of the accused or the defendant, that party has the right to request a review of the institution's decision. The Ombudsperson's Office shall, on its own initiative, provide the information about the new evidence, legal principle, or point of law to that party.

(g) When a request for re-investigation is submitted to the institution that made a decision on the matter as per subsection (a), that institution shall consider the following when deciding on its previous decision:
(1) Whether the new evidence, legal principle, or point of law submitted for re-investigation was obtained after the institution made its decision;
(2) The connection between the new evidence, legal principle, or point of law and the case;
(3) That the new evidence submitted for re-investigation was evidence that could not have been legally obtained previously;
(4) The possibility that the new evidence, legal principle, or point of law could change the institution's previous decision in the case.

(h) The institution to which a case is submitted by the Ombudsperson's Office as per subsection (a) shall make a decision on the matter within a maximum of 60 (sixty) days.

30. Administrative Affairs of the Ombudsperson's Office

The Government shall facilitate the necessary staff and resources for the Ombudsperson's Office to fully perform its responsibilities and carry out its work.

31. Staff of the Ombudsperson's Office

(a) The administrative staff of the Ombudsperson's Office shall be hired by the Office.

(b) The Ombudsperson's Office shall appoint individuals with adequate skills and experience as technical staff to work on the cases it is investigating.

(c) The salaries and allowances of the staff of the Ombudsperson's Office shall be determined by the Office in consultation with the Ministry of Finance.

32. Secondment of Staff to the Ombudsperson's Office

(a) If a request is made to temporarily second an employee of a state or government agency to the work of the Ombudsperson's Office, that employee shall be released from their work at their respective office. The salary and allowances for the period the seconded employee works at the Ombudsperson's Office shall be paid by the seconding agency.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), if an employee seconded to the work of the Ombudsperson's Office has an objection to working at the Office, that employee has the opportunity to decline the secondment.

33. Financial Matters

(a) The funds required for the Ombudsperson's Office to fully perform its responsibilities shall be allocated to the Office from the state budget, under a budget approved by the People's Majlis. Accordingly, the Ombudsperson's Office shall prepare its budget and submit it to the Ministry of Finance for inclusion in the state budget, in accordance with the Public Finance Act (Law No. 3/2006) and the regulations made thereunder.

(b) In addition to the funds allocated from the state budget as per subsection (a), the Office may seek financial assistance from various local and international associations and foreign countries.

(c) All income received by the Ombudsperson's Office shall be deposited into a bank account opened in the name of the Office.

34. Auditing of Income and Expenditure

(a) The accounts of the income, expenditure, assets, and financial liabilities of the Ombudsperson's Office shall be maintained in accordance with the Public Finance Act (Law No. 3/2006). The Ombudsperson's Office shall, in consultation with the Auditor General, formulate a regulation on how these accounts shall be maintained.

(b) After the Auditor General has audited the accounts of the income, expenditure, assets, and financial liabilities of the Ombudsperson's Office as per the regulation in subsection (a), the Office shall send the financial statement it prepares, along with its annual report for each year, to the President and the People's Majlis within 3 (three) months of the end of that financial year.

35. Confidentiality

(a) All information related to the investigations and ongoing work of the Ombudsperson's Office shall be confidential and privileged information.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), information related to an investigation or ongoing work of the Ombudsperson's Office may be disclosed in accordance with a procedure determined by the Office, in a manner that does not impede the investigation or work.

(c) Even after resigning or being removed from the position of an Ombudsperson, the confidentiality of all information related to investigations conducted or being conducted, and work done or being done by the Ombudsperson's Office under this Act must be maintained.

(d) In exercising the powers vested in the Ombudsperson's Office and in fulfilling its responsibilities, the confidentiality of the personal information of the parties involved in the case must be maintained.

(e) The agency to which a case is sent for prosecution and action after investigation by the Ombudsperson's Office shall establish special procedures for maintaining the confidentiality of all information and documents contained in such cases and shall make the necessary arrangements for it.

36. Immunity

No civil or criminal proceedings shall be brought against an Ombudsperson or an employee of the Office for any act done or omitted in good faith in their official capacity, in the performance of the responsibilities of the Ombudsperson's Office, and in exercising the powers conferred by this Act, in accordance with the law or within the scope of a power granted by law.

37. Financial Statement

(a) Ombudspersons appointed as such shall, within 3 (three) months of assuming office, submit to the Auditor General a financial statement showing their income, assets in their name, and their debt liability at the time of assuming office.

(b) In addition to submitting the financial statement as specified in subsection (a), all Ombudspersons of the Ombudsperson's Office shall, from the date they assume office, continue to submit their annual financial statement to the Auditor General within 3 (three) months of the end of each year. This financial statement shall disclose their assets and financial accounts, business interests, income, and debts. For the purpose of this Article, a year is defined as a period of one (1) year from the date the Ombudspersons assume office.

38. Not Investigating a Case with a Conflict of Interest

(a) No Ombudsperson shall participate in any capacity in making any decision related to or in investigating any case in which they have a personal interest, role, financial gain, or any other benefit.

(b) Even if it was not previously known that a case being investigated by the Ombudsperson's Office is one in which an Ombudsperson has an interest, role, financial gain, or any other benefit, upon becoming aware of it, the member shall inform the Chief Ombudsperson that it is a case in which they have an interest and shall recuse themselves from investigating the case.

(c) An employee appointed by the Ombudsperson's Office to investigate cases shall recuse themselves from investigating cases where there is a conflict of interest for that employee.
Chapter Three: Compensation and Remedy

39. Compensation

(a) In a case submitted to the Ombudsperson's Office under this Act or a case investigated on the Office's own initiative, if a person's human right or fundamental freedom has been violated as a result of a systematically planned act, a court may award fair compensation to the victim of that act in accordance with this Act.

(b) The compensation awarded under this Chapter shall be financial compensation and other forms of compensation.

40. Compensation for Direct Loss

(a) If a person's human right or fundamental freedom has been violated as a direct result of a systematically planned act, financial compensation may be awarded to the victim of that act for the following types of injuries sustained as a direct result of the injury:
(1) Direct financial loss;
(2) Loss of a limb, or permanent non-functioning of a limb, or any other permanent physical harm;
(3) Permanent psychological harm or death.

(b) In the situation described in subsection (a)(3), the financial compensation awarded shall be given to the legal guardian of the person who suffered the loss as a direct result of the injury.

41. Compensation for Indirect Loss

(a) In addition to awarding financial compensation in a situation where it can be awarded under Article 40 of this Act, or instead of awarding financial compensation, or in circumstances other than those specified for awarding financial compensation in that Article, other forms of compensation may be awarded to the victims. This includes the following:
(1) Facilitating employment opportunities or reinstatement to the previous position in the current job;
(2) Facilitating opportunities for education or training;
(3) Providing healthcare or psychological treatment;
(4) Facilitating housing opportunities.

(b) In awarding other forms of compensation under this Article, priority shall be given to compensating the victim to the most appropriate extent for the injury sustained.

42. Applying for Compensation

(a) If it is believed that an injury has been sustained, an application for compensation may be submitted to the Ombudsperson's Office.

(b) Applications for compensation shall be submitted to the Ombudsperson's Office in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

(c) In making a decision regarding a submission made to the Ombudsperson's Office under this Article, if, upon considering the evidence submitted or the evidence obtained by the Office in relation to the matter, the Office finds that the person is a victim of that act of crime, the Office may decide on the matter in one of the following ways:
(1) That a claim for compensation in the case shall be made against a state institution; or
(2) That a claim for compensation in the case shall be made against the senior official or officials of the state institution that harmed the victim.

(d) If the Ombudsperson's Office decides as per subsection (c)(1), the victim has the right to file a claim for compensation on behalf of the state institution in that case.

(e) If the Ombudsperson's Office decides as per subsection (c)(2), the discretionary power to file a claim for compensation from the senior official of the state institution for the victim is vested in the Attorney General of the state.

43. Amount of Compensation Awarded

(a) In determining the compensation to be awarded under this Act, the court shall decide on the type and amount of compensation to be awarded to the victim, based on all the circumstances of the case. Accordingly, the court may determine the following:
(1) The scope and conditions for awarding compensation;
(2) The agency responsible for arranging the payment of compensation;
(3) Any interim compensation that is deemed necessary to be awarded immediately.

(b) In awarding compensation under this Article, the court may determine the following:
(1) To award compensation for all matters for which compensation was requested;
(2) To award compensation for some of the matters for which compensation was requested;
(3) To award compensation on a uniform basis in similar types of cases.

44. Regulation on Awarding Compensation

A regulation on the procedures to be followed by the courts in awarding compensation under this Act, and the standards for the amounts of compensation to be awarded, shall be made by the Department of Judicial Administration with the advice of the Attorney General.

45. Other Remedies

(a) In addition to or instead of the compensation specified in Articles 40 and 41 of this Act, the Ombudsperson's Office may decide to provide other remedies to the victims. This includes the following:
(1) Stopping an act that is being committed in violation of a human right;
(2) Holding the perpetrator accountable;
(3) Requesting an apology.

(b) The additional remedies that the Ombudsperson's Office will determine under this Act, the standards to be considered in providing such remedies, and the procedures to be followed, shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.
Chapter Four: Reporting

46. Report of the Ombudsperson's Office

(a) Upon the completion of the work of the Ombudsperson's Office, a report shall be prepared including the following matters and submitted to the President:
(1) A summary of the decisions of the Ombudsperson's Office;
(2) A separate statement for each case investigated by the Ombudsperson's Office, including the details of the case, the findings, and how the case was concluded;
(3) The cases submitted for criminal prosecution from among the cases investigated by the Ombudsperson's Office;
(4) Proposals regarding providing compensation and remedies to the victims of crime;
(5) The steps the Office deems necessary to be taken to implement the matters proposed by the Ombudsperson's Office;
(6) The reformative and other measures that the Office deems necessary to be taken systemically, politically, and administratively to achieve the objectives for which the Ombudsperson's Office was established, and the changes to be brought to laws and policies;
(7) A detailed description of the systemic framework required to implement the proposals of the Ombudsperson's Office after its dissolution;
(8) Details of the cases investigated by the Ombudsperson's Office where there was a conflict of interest for its members and staff, and the manner in which those cases were handled.

(b) The report referred to in subsection (a) shall be published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives within 7 (seven) days of its submission to the President.

(c) The President shall submit the report submitted to the President under subsection (a) to the People's Majlis.

47. Interim Report

(a) Once every 3 (three) months after the commencement of the work of the Ombudsperson's Office, a report including the following matters shall be prepared and sent to the President:
(1) The work done by the Ombudsperson's Office;
(2) Details of the cases being investigated by the Ombudsperson's Office;
(3) The cases concluded by the Ombudsperson's Office and how they were concluded;
(4) Information related to the administrative functioning of the Ombudsperson's Office.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), in a special situation, if the Ombudsperson's Office deems it necessary, it has the discretion to submit a special report on that situation to the President.
Chapter Five: Prosecution, Judgment, and Appeal

48. Timeframe for Filing Charges

In a case sent for compensation under Article 42 of this Act or a case sent for prosecution under this Act, the Prosecutor General's Office or the Attorney General's Office shall decide on whether to file charges in the case within a maximum of 21 (twenty-one) days from the date the case is sent. And when filing charges in such cases, the relevant court shall be informed that it is a case being prosecuted under this Act.

49. Timeframe for Investigating and Ruling on a Case

(a) If the Prosecutor General or the Attorney General decides to prosecute a case investigated and sent by the Ombudsperson's Office, or if a victim submits a case to court seeking compensation as per Article 42 of this Act, the court shall investigate and rule on those cases as soon as possible, and at the latest within 60 (sixty) days.

(b) For the purpose of subsection (a), the 60 (sixty) days shall not include any delay caused by a matter beyond the control of the court investigating the case or the parties involved in the case.

50. Right to Appeal and Appeal Period

(a) If the relevant lower court has decided a criminal or civil case filed under this Act contrary to Sharia and legal principles, the parties involved in the case have the right to submit the case to the High Court within 15 (fifteen) days of the decision.

(b) In cases appealed to the High Court under subsection (a), the court shall investigate and decide on the case as soon as possible, and at the latest within 45 (forty-five) days from the date the case was submitted for appeal.

(c) If the High Court has decided a case contrary to Sharia and legal principles, the parties involved in the case have the right to submit the case to the Supreme Court of the Maldives within 15 (fifteen) days of the decision.

(d) In cases appealed to the Supreme Court of the Maldives under subsection (c), the court shall investigate and decide on the case as soon as possible, and at the latest within 45 (forty-five) days from the date the case was submitted for appeal.
Chapter Six: Miscellaneous

51. Making Regulations

(a) The regulations required for the administration of the Ombudsperson's Office and other regulations that the Office is required to make under this Act shall be made and administered by the Office.

(b) All regulations required to be made under this Act shall be made and published by the agency specified in this Act as being responsible for making the regulation, within 3 (three) months of the commencement of this Act.

52. Commencement of the Act

This Act shall come into force on the day it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

53. Definitions

Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms and phrases in this Act shall have the meanings given below:

(a) "Acts committed in a systematic manner against human rights and fundamental freedoms" refers to acts of deprivation of human rights and fundamental freedoms that have been systematically planned and executed by a current or former senior official of a state institution.

(b) "Human rights and fundamental freedoms" refers to the fundamental rights and freedoms provided under Chapter Two of the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives.

(c) "Ombudsperson's Office" refers to the "Ombudsperson's Office for Transitional Justice" established under Article 4 of this Act.[4]

(d) "Ombudsperson" refers to the Ombudspersons appointed to the Ombudsperson's Office for Transitional Justice established under Article 4 of this Act.

(e) "Providing assistance" refers to facilitating opportunities for programs to overcome the psychological, physical, social, economic, health, and other damages faced by victims due to the injuries they have sustained, and providing psychosocial support.

(f) "A state institution" refers to any official state body, including government offices, ministries, departments, commissions, services, agencies, boards, councils, and assemblies that perform an official responsibility of the state.

(g) "A senior official of a state institution" refers to any person who has the power and authority to make decisions at the level of that institution, and whose decisions are binding on the employees of that institution.

(h) "Taking action" refers to taking action in a case submitted to the Ombudsperson's Office under this Act or a case investigated on the Office's own initiative, in the form of providing compensation or remedy, in accordance with this Act.
