Translation of the Prosecutor General's Act of the Maldives (Law No. 9/2008)

Below is a comprehensive English translation of the provided Dhivehi text of the Prosecutor General's Act. This law outlines the establishment, responsibilities, powers, and operational procedures of the Prosecutor General and the Prosecutor General's Office in the Maldives.[1][2]

PROSECUTOR GENERAL’S ACT

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This is the law to specify the responsibilities and duties of the Prosecutor General appointed in accordance with the Constitution, and to stipulate the procedures related thereto.
(b) This law shall be cited as the "Prosecutor General's Act".

Establishment of the Prosecutor General's Office

2.
(a) For the purpose of carrying out the responsibilities and duties of the Prosecutor General under this Act, an office by the name of the "Prosecutor General's Office" shall be established on the date this Act comes into force.
(b) The Prosecutor General's Office is an independent legal entity with the power to sue and be sued in its own name, to conduct transactions in its own name, and shall have its own seal.

Submitting a Name for Appointment of the Prosecutor General

3.
(a) A person shall be appointed as the Prosecutor General by the President in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
(b) Whenever an appointment is to be made for the Prosecutor General, the President shall submit one or more names to the People's Majlis.
(c) The name or names submitted by the President to the People's Majlis under subsection (b) of this Article shall be a name or names selected from among those who respond to a public announcement. When submitting the names, the names of all other individuals who responded to the public announcement shall also be sent to the People's Majlis for their information.
(d) From among the name or names submitted by the President to the People's Majlis under subsection (b), the person approved by a majority of the total membership of the People's Majlis shall be appointed by the President to the post of Prosecutor General.

Qualifications Required of the Prosecutor General

4. A person appointed as Prosecutor General shall, while remaining in the post of Prosecutor General, fulfill the following qualifications:
(a) Be a Muslim;
(b) Be a citizen of the Maldives;
(c) Be at least 25 years of age;
(d) Not have been convicted of an offense for which a hadd is prescribed in Islam, or of a crime of treason or bribery;
(e) Not be holding a political post elected or appointed to under the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives or a law;
(f) Not be a member of a political party or be active in a political party;
(g) Possess the education and competence to carry out the responsibilities of the post of Prosecutor General. In this regard, the person must have obtained a first degree in the legal field and have at least 4 (four) years of experience working in the Sharia or legal field in the Maldives;
(h) Not be engaged in any employment other than the post of Prosecutor General;
(i) Not hold a share or a position in a company, partnership, or any such entity involved in work related to the Sharia or legal field;
(j) Be of sound mind.

Term of Office of the Prosecutor General

5.
(a) The term of office of a Prosecutor General appointed under this Act shall be one term of 5 (five) years from the date of his appointment.
(b) Notwithstanding the provision in subsection (a) of this Article, the term of office of a person appointed to the post of Prosecutor General, other than a person removed under Article 9 of this Act, may be extended for a further period not exceeding 5 (five) years, as approved by the People's Majlis.

Vacancy in the Post of Prosecutor General

6. If the post of Prosecutor General becomes vacant under any circumstances, a person shall be appointed to that post in accordance with Article 3 of this Act within a maximum of 30 (thirty) days from the date the post becomes vacant.

Deputy Prosecutor General

7.
(a) A person or persons shall be appointed to the post of Deputy Prosecutor General to assist the Prosecutor General in carrying out his responsibilities.
(b) Persons shall be appointed to and removed from the post of Deputy Prosecutor General by the Prosecutor General.
(c) A person appointed as Deputy Prosecutor General must fulfill the qualifications required of the Prosecutor General as specified in Article 4 of this Act.
(d) If more than one person is appointed to the post of Deputy Prosecutor General, a person from among those holding the post of Deputy Prosecutor General shall be designated to temporarily assume all responsibilities of the Prosecutor General under this Act and the regulations made hereunder, and to exercise the powers vested in the Prosecutor General, in any of the following circumstances:
1. The post of Prosecutor General becomes vacant; or
2. The Prosecutor General is unable to carry out his responsibilities for any reason.
(e) In the circumstances specified in subsections (d) (1) and (d) (2) of this Article, the Deputy Prosecutor General shall assume all the responsibilities to be borne by the Prosecutor General. And the Deputy Prosecutor General shall be answerable to the authorities to whom the Prosecutor General is answerable.
(f) If the post of Deputy Prosecutor General becomes vacant under any circumstances, the Prosecutor General shall appoint a person to that post in accordance with this Article within a maximum of 30 (thirty) days from the date the post becomes vacant.

Assumption of Office by the Prosecutor General

8. The Prosecutor General may assume office upon taking and subscribing to the following oath before a Judge and signing the declaration of the oath.

Removal of the Prosecutor General from Office

9. The Prosecutor General may be removed from office in a circumstance as specified in subsection (a) of this Article, in accordance with subsection (b) of this Article.[1]
(a) Upon a finding that the Prosecutor General has committed an act unbecoming of his office, or that a situation has arisen which prevents him from performing his duties, or that he lacks the competence to perform his duties;
(b) Upon a finding by a committee of the People's Majlis that a circumstance specified in subsection (a) of this Article has occurred, the Prosecutor General shall be removed from office upon a resolution passed by a majority of the members present and voting at a sitting of the People's Majlis.

Resignation from Office

10.
(a) Should the Prosecutor General wish to resign from his office, he shall submit a letter to that effect to the President, and upon receipt of that letter by the President, the Prosecutor General shall be deemed to have been removed from his office.
(b) Should a Deputy Prosecutor General wish to resign from his office, he shall submit a letter to that effect to the Prosecutor General, and upon receipt of that letter by the Prosecutor General, the Deputy Prosecutor General shall be deemed to have been removed from his office.

Salary and Allowances

11.
(a) The salary and other allowances payable to the Prosecutor General shall be determined by the People's Majlis.
(b) The salary and allowances payable to the Prosecutor General shall not be reduced during his term of office.
(c) The salary and allowances payable to the employees of the Prosecutor General's Office shall be determined by the Prosecutor General in consultation with the Ministry of Finance and Treasury.

Prosecutor General to Carry Out Responsibilities Independently

11-1.
(a) The Prosecutor General shall carry out the responsibilities vested in him by the Constitution and the law impartially and independently.
(b) The Prosecutor General, in the performance of his duties and the exercise of his powers, shall not be under the influence of any person.
(c) The Prosecutor General shall carry out his responsibilities and exercise his powers without fear or favor to any party, without seeking to benefit any particular party, and in accordance with the general policies determined by the Attorney General.

Code of Conduct for the Prosecutor General

12.
(a) In carrying out his responsibilities and exercising his powers, and during his term of office, the Prosecutor General shall act in the following manner:
1. Act in accordance with the Constitution and the law;
2. Promote the rule of law and protect the rights and freedoms of the people;
3. Always prioritize and give precedence to national responsibility and the benefit and welfare of the people in carrying out his responsibilities and exercising his powers;
4. Not discriminate against any citizen based on race, country of origin, color, sex, physical or mental disability, political or other opinion, financial standing, family or island of birth, language spoken, or social status or position;
5. Not act upon the instructions of any person or any party, and not be under the influence of any person or any party in carrying out his responsibilities and exercising his powers;
6. Carry out his work and make decisions in accordance with the general policies determined in writing and publicly published by the Attorney General, without fear or favor to any party, without seeking to benefit any particular party, and with impartiality;
7. Base his work on the principles of equality, transparency, and accountability;
8. Not engage in any act, participate in any activity, make any statement, express any opinion, or in any other way, do anything that would or could raise questions about his independence, impartiality, and fairness;
9. Not use information obtained by virtue of his position or his employment for his own unjust enrichment or to obtain such a benefit for another person;
10. Not disclose information obtained by virtue of his position to a third party, except in the performance of his duties and responsibilities;
11. Not do anything that may conflict with or prejudice the duties he is required to perform as Prosecutor General.
12. At all times and in all actions, maintain his integrity and reputation at a level acceptable to society;
13. Not use the power and authority vested in him by law with malicious intent to cause harm to a particular party, or use his position, directly or indirectly, to commit an illegal act;
14. At no time do anything that may bring disrepute to the office of the Prosecutor General;
15. Not use his position, directly or indirectly, with the intent to cause specific harm to a particular person or to defame him;
16. Not seek any gift, aid, benefit, or hospitality from any party, except for a gift, aid, benefit, or hospitality that is generally available to everyone.
(b) The Prosecutor General, in the performance of his official duties, shall adhere to the highest standards of conduct set forth in this Act, and shall, in all circumstances, abide by those standards to a degree that it is apparent to others that he is abiding by them.
(c) Just as this subsection requires the Prosecutor General to abide by the standards of conduct set forth in subsection (a), the Prosecutor General shall ensure that the employees of the Prosecutor General's Office also abide by those standards of conduct.
(d) The Prosecutor General shall, in his personal capacity and in his official capacity, uphold the independence, integrity, equality, and ethical and behavioral standards of the Prosecutor General's Office.

Standards to be Upheld in the Performance of Responsibilities

12-1.
(a) In carrying out the responsibilities and duties of his office, the Prosecutor General shall uphold the following standards:
(1) Abide by and respect the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives and all laws, and in the performance of official duties, comply with the orders of a person who issues a lawful order under those laws;
2) Uphold the rule of law and protect the rights and freedoms of the people;
(3) Make decisions without any personal bias and based solely on the evidence before him, and in doing so, be sincere, fair, and diligent in his work and duties;
(4) In official dealings with others, and in dealings with persons accused of crimes, treat them with respect;
(5) Not use the power and authority vested in the Prosecutor General with malicious intent to benefit or harm a particular party, use the discretion vested in the Prosecutor General by law in a correct manner, and in exercising that discretion, respect the rights, duties, and interests of others;
(6) Except in the circumstances specified in subsection (a) (16) of Article 12 of this Act, not seek aid, benefits, hospitality, or gifts from any party, either directly or indirectly;
(7) Not place himself in a situation where he is obliged to do something in return for a favor done for him by a particular person or party;
(8) While in office and after leaving office, maintain as confidential the information obtained in the performance of his office and the confidential information obtained in connection with cases;
(9) Disclose information that must be disclosed to another party correctly and in accordance with the law, inform the parties to whom the information must be informed, provide correct information in the performance of official duties, and not disclose incorrect or false information or information in a manner that distorts the truth;
(10) In selecting and appointing people to the Prosecutor General's Office, consider as the most fundamental criterion the possession of suitable competence and educational qualifications for the work, and in giving employment and promotions and in other matters relating to employees, consider as the main standard to be observed that they are a group of people who are suitable in terms of education, ethics, and work;
(11) Not participate in political debates, not use his employment to achieve a political objective, not do anything that indicates support for or opposition to political activities, and not do anything that indicates that he is yielding to political influence;
(12) Constantly assess the situations in which the employees of the Prosecutor General's Office may be exposed to acts of corruption, and design the duties of their posts, the ethics of their work, and the administrative procedures of the Prosecutor General's Office in a manner that does not pave the way for corruption;
(13) Implement the necessary procedures to keep the employees of the Prosecutor General's Office away from acts of corruption, provide them with education and training, be vigilant about their financial situation to ensure that they are free from unjust enrichment, and set an example for employees that is free from corruption.
(b) If the Prosecutor General or an employee of the Prosecutor General's Office is ordered, pressured, or compelled to do or not to do something in violation of the standards of conduct, or if undue influence is exerted in a manner that hinders the Prosecutor General or an employee of the Prosecutor General's Office from carrying out his work with integrity, the matter shall be promptly reported to the Anti-Corruption Commission and the People's Majlis.
(c) The responsibilities specified in subsection (a) of this Article shall be considered a fundamental principle of the employment of the Prosecutor General and the employees of the Prosecutor General's Office. This is so even if any of those matters are not included in an employment agreement. And, a violation of any of those matters shall be considered to give rise to a situation for taking disciplinary action against that person.

Not to Engage in Other Employment and Not to Engage in Business with a Conflict of Interest

12-2.
(a) The Prosecutor General shall not engage in any other employment or hold any other post for which an income is received. Nor shall he engage in any other work for which an income is received.
(b) The Prosecutor General shall not provide legal services to private parties, whether for any benefit or gain to himself, or for the purpose of obtaining a benefit or gain for another party, or even on a voluntary basis.
(c) The Prosecutor General shall not engage in any type of business. Nor shall he do anything on a commercial basis. And he shall not buy or lease state property and land. And the Prosecutor General shall not have any financial interest, whether direct or indirect, in a transaction between the state and any other party.
(d) Notwithstanding the provision in subsection (c) of this Article, the holding of shares in a public company that sells shares in the Maldives in a manner that does not make one a significant shareholder of such a company shall not be considered as engaging in business for the purposes of this Article. For the purposes of this Article, a "significant shareholder of a public company that sells shares in the Maldives" refers to a shareholder who holds a position that gives him direct or indirect control over more than 5% (five percent) of the share capital of a public company that sells shares in the Maldives.
(e) Except in his capacity as Prosecutor General, he shall not participate, whether with or without remuneration, in any other commission, council, assembly, committee, board, or any other such body of the state.
(f) The Prosecutor General shall not work for any party in the capacity of a consultant.
(g) The Prosecutor General shall not become a member of a civil society organization of a type that may conflict with the responsibilities he is required to perform.
(h) For the purposes of subsection (c) of this Article, the sale of a plot of land, a house, or property in the name of the Prosecutor General for a price not exceeding the generally prevailing market price for such a plot of land, house, or property, and the earning of an income by leasing such a plot of land, house, or property for a price not exceeding the generally prevailing rental price in the market, shall not be included within the business and work specified in subsection (c) of this Article.
(i) After being removed from the post of Prosecutor General, the Prosecutor General shall not, for a period of the first 12 (twelve) months, engage in any employment or work that conflicts with the interests he served in his capacity as Prosecutor General.

Avoiding Matters with a Conflict of Interest

12-3.
(a) The Prosecutor General shall not allow any conflict to arise between the official duties he is required to perform and his interests.
(b) For the purposes of the principle of conflict of interest of the Prosecutor General referred to in subsection (a) of this Article, a conflict of interest of his spouse, his children, and other persons under his direct care shall also be considered as a conflict of interest of that person.
(c) If a situation arises or is believed to be likely to arise in which the interests of the Prosecutor General may conflict in the handling of a case being dealt with by the Prosecutor General's Office, he shall, after stating the fact, recuse himself from handling that case. And he shall not exert any influence on any party in the handling of that case. And he shall not subsequently participate in any way in the decision of that case.
(d) The principles set forth in subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this Article shall, to the relevant extent, also apply to the employees of the Prosecutor General's Office.
(e) A violation by the Prosecutor General of a principle set forth in subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this Article shall be considered as an act that is not befitting for him to do while in office, and shall be considered as a situation in which he may be removed from office.
(f) A violation by an employee of the Prosecutor General's Office of a principle set forth in subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this Article shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other article of this Act or in any other law, be considered as an act that is not befitting for him to do while in office, and shall be considered as a situation in which he may be removed from office.

Formulation of Policies

12-4. The Prosecutor General shall, within 6 (six) months from the date this Act comes into force, formulate and implement the policies, procedures, training, and details relating to the standards required to implement the standards set forth in Article 12 and Article 12-1 of this Act in their most complete form. And those standards shall be detailed to the extent that it is clear what is permissible and what is prohibited in acting in accordance with those standards.

Violation of the Code of Conduct

12-5.
(a) A violation by the Prosecutor General of a standard of conduct set forth in this Act shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other article of this Act or in any other law, be considered as an act that is not befitting for him to do while in office, and shall be considered to have given rise to a situation in which he may be removed from office.
(b) Even if action is taken against the Prosecutor General under subsection (a) of this Article for an act he committed in violation of the standards of conduct, if that act involves a criminal offense, it shall not be a bar to bringing a criminal charge against him.

Submission of Financial Statements

12-6.
(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law, or even if it has been the practice to act otherwise under such a law, after this Act comes into force, the Prosecutor General shall act in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Act in submitting financial statements.
(b) The person appointed as Prosecutor General shall, within 3 (three) months of assuming office, submit to the Auditor General a financial statement showing the income he has received, the property in his name, and the debt liability he has to pay at the time of assuming his office.
(c) In addition to submitting a financial statement in accordance with subsection (b) of this Article, the Prosecutor General shall, for each year from the date of assuming office, submit to the Auditor General a financial statement for that year within 90 (ninety) days of the end of that year. For the purposes of this Article, a year means the date on which 1 (one) year is completed from the date on which that person assumes the office of Prosecutor General.
(d) The Prosecutor General shall, within the first 3 (three) months after being removed from office or resigning, submit to the Auditor General a financial statement showing the income he has received and the sources of his income, the property in his name, and the debt liability he has to pay at the time of leaving office.
(e) When the Prosecutor General submits his financial statement under subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this Article, he shall also submit the financial statements of his spouse and children under 18 (eighteen) years of age.
(f) The financial statements required to be submitted under subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this Article shall be prepared in accordance with the format determined by the Auditor General and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.
(g) If the Auditor General finds that there is an issue in a statement submitted to the Auditor General under this Article, the Auditor General shall submit that issue to the People's Majlis.

Violation of the Code of Conduct by Employees

12-7.
(a) If an employee of the Prosecutor General's Office violates a standard of conduct specified in subsection (a) of Article 12-1 of this Act, action shall be taken against that employee in accordance with the regulations for employees of the Prosecutor General's Office, taking into account the extent of the violation.
(b) In the circumstances specified in subsection (a) of this Article, the measures that can be taken against employees of the Prosecutor General's Office for violating the code of conduct shall be specified in the regulations for employees of the Prosecutor General's Office made under this Act.
(c) If an act committed by an employee of the Prosecutor General's Office in violation of the standards of conduct involves a criminal offense, the taking of action under subsection (a) of this Article in accordance with the regulations for employees of the Prosecutor General's Office shall not be a bar to bringing a criminal charge against him.

Protection

13. No civil or criminal action shall be brought against the Prosecutor General or an employee of the Prosecutor General's Office for an act done or omitted to be done in good faith, in an official capacity, in the performance of the responsibilities of the Prosecutor General, and in acting under the powers vested in the Prosecutor General, in accordance with the law, or within the scope of a power vested by a law.

Prosecutor General to be Answerable to the People's Majlis

14. The Prosecutor General shall appear before the People's Majlis or a committee of the Majlis whenever required by the Majlis or a committee thereof. And the Prosecutor General shall answer the questions put to him by the Majlis or a committee thereof truthfully to the best of his knowledge.

Responsibilities and Powers of the Prosecutor General

15. The responsibilities and powers of the Prosecutor General shall include the following matters:[3][4]
(a) To supervise all matters relating to all prosecutions in the Maldives in connection with criminal offenses;
(b) To evaluate the evidence and proof submitted by various investigating authorities and to determine whether or not a charge should be brought;
(c) To bring charges against every person accused of committing a criminal offense in any court within the jurisdiction of the courts of the Maldives;
(d) To review the inquiries and investigations conducted in connection with acts suspected of being criminal offenses and to ensure that such matters are conducted in accordance with the law;
(e) To review and continuously monitor the circumstances and conditions under which a person is arrested, detained, or otherwise deprived of his liberty before trial, and to ensure that such procedures are being followed;
(f) Upon receipt of a complaint that a criminal offense has been committed by any party or upon receipt of information of such a matter in any other way, to issue an order to a body empowered by law to conduct an investigation to investigate that matter;
(g) To take over the conduct of a criminal prosecution initiated by any body empowered to conduct a criminal prosecution by a law passed by the People's Majlis, and to review such prosecutions, and to withdraw any prosecution that the Prosecutor General deems fit to withdraw before a judgment is delivered by the court;
(h) To review and change a decision to prosecute or not to prosecute a person accused of committing a crime, and to withdraw a charge that has been brought;
(i) To appeal a judgment or decision delivered by a court in a criminal matter;
(j) To determine all procedures for prosecuting in criminal matters;
(k) To uphold all the principles of the Constitution, the law, and the rights and freedoms of all individuals;
(l) To establish branches of the office referred to in Article 2 of this Act in various administrative divisions of the Maldives in order to carry out the responsibilities of the post of Prosecutor General;
(m) To formulate and implement a code of conduct for the employees of the Prosecutor General's Office.

Employment, Transfer, and Removal of Employees of the Prosecutor General's Office

16.
(a) The Prosecutor General shall have the power to employ the necessary staff for the Prosecutor General's Office to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the Prosecutor General and to implement the powers of the Prosecutor General, and to appoint, train, promote, and remove from their posts additional employees in a manner not inconsistent with the budget approved by the People's Majlis for the operation of the Prosecutor General's Office each year.
(b) There shall be a special structure for the technical and other employees required by the Prosecutor General's Office. And the regulations made under this Act shall include the conditions for employment, promotion, and terms of service for the employees included in that structure.

Delegation of the Work of the Prosecutor General to Another Party

17.
(a) In carrying out the responsibilities of the Prosecutor General and in conducting a matter under the power vested in him, he may delegate the conduct of that matter under his guidance to another person or persons within his area of work.
(b) A matter delegated by the Prosecutor General to another person or persons under subsection (a) of this Article shall be delegated under a written authorization from the Prosecutor General, to the extent specified in that authorization.

Financial Matters

18.
(a) The funds required for the Prosecutor General to fully carry out his responsibilities shall be disbursed to the Prosecutor General's Office each year from the state's finances under a budget approved by the People's Majlis. For this purpose, the Prosecutor General's Office shall, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, prepare its budget and submit it to the People's Majlis each year along with the state budget.
(b) Any financial assistance given to the Prosecutor General's Office by any person, association, or foreign government shall not be used except to carry out the responsibilities of the Prosecutor General's Office.
(c) An account of the income, expenditure, assets, and financial liabilities of the Prosecutor General's Office shall be written and maintained in accordance with the regulations made by the Auditor General in consultation with the Auditor General, and after being audited, a financial statement prepared shall be sent to the President and the People's Majlis along with the annual report referred to in Article 19 of this Act.

Annual Report

19.
(a) An annual report prepared on the work done by the Prosecutor General's Office shall be sent by the Prosecutor General's Office to the President and the People's Majlis before the 28th of February of each year.
(b) The annual report referred to in subsection (a) of this Article shall include the following matters that occurred during the period of the report:
1. The number of cases submitted to the Prosecutor General's Office, the parties who submitted those cases, and the details of the action taken on the cases;
2. Details of the administrative matters that occurred during that year in relation to the administrative scope of the Prosecutor General's Office and its employees.
(c) The Prosecutor General's Office shall publicly publish the report referred to in subsection (a) of this Article within 14 (fourteen) days of sending it to the President and the People's Majlis.
(d) Notwithstanding the provision in subsection (a) of this Article, in a special circumstance that arises, the Prosecutor General shall have the discretion to submit a special report on that situation to the President and the People's Majlis if he deems it necessary.

Appointment of the Prosecutor General

20.
(a) A Prosecutor General shall be appointed in accordance with this Act within 60 (sixty) days of the first sitting of the first People's Majlis elected under Article 299 of the Constitution.
(b) In order to act in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article:
1. The President shall send the name or names he proposes to appoint to the post of Prosecutor General to the People's Majlis within 20 (twenty) days from the date of the first sitting of the first People's Majlis elected under Article 296 (b) of the Constitution.
2. The Majlis shall make a decision and inform the President within 20 (twenty) days from the date the President submits a name or names to the People's Majlis in accordance with subsections (b) (1) and (b) (3) of this Article.
3. If the People's Majlis does not approve a name submitted by the President to the Majlis in accordance with this Article, the President shall submit a new name or names to the Majlis within 5 (five) days from the date he is informed of the matter.

Prosecutor General Appointed During the Transitional Period

21.
(a) The Prosecutor General appointed in accordance with Article 288 of the Constitution shall have all the responsibilities and powers of the Prosecutor General appointed under this Act. And from the date this Act comes into force, all other articles of this Act, except for Article 3, Article 5, and Article 20 (a) of this Act, shall apply to the Prosecutor General appointed in accordance with Article 288 of the Constitution.
(b) The Prosecutor General appointed in accordance with subsection (a) of this Article shall remain in his office until a Prosecutor General is appointed in accordance with Article 20 of this Act.

Date of Commencement of this Act

22. This Act shall come into force on the date it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

Making and Enforcing Regulations

23.
(a) The regulations to be made under this Act shall be made and enforced by the Prosecutor General. And those regulations shall be made and completed within 6 (six) months of the appointment of the Prosecutor General in accordance with Article 20 (a) of this Act.
(b) Subsection (a) of this Article shall not prevent the Prosecutor General from amending a regulation made under subsection (a) or from making an additional regulation under this Act after the period specified in that subsection, if he wishes to do so.
(c) Notwithstanding the provision in subsection (a) of this Article, subsection (a) shall not prevent the Prosecutor General appointed under Article 288 of the Constitution from making a regulation that he needs to make to carry out his duties and responsibilities.

Definitions of Words and Phrases

24. Unless the context in which the phrase is included in this Act otherwise requires:
"Prosecutor General's Office" refers to the office established under Article 2 of this Act for the Prosecutor General to carry out his responsibilities.
"Auditor General" refers to the Auditor General appointed under Law No. 4/2007 (Audit Act).

