Urban Development Act

Chapter One
Commencement

Introduction and Name
1.
(a) This is an Act to establish a robust legal framework for the designation and development of urban areas in the Maldives, and to state the fundamental principles and standards for designating and developing such areas, and the principles related to planning the built environment of urban areas and sustainably developing and managing urban areas in accordance with such plans.
(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Urban Development Act".

Purpose
2.
The purposes of this Act are stated below.
(a) To state the principles relating to the designation of urban areas in the Maldives, and the designation of zones, categories, and land use of such areas;
(b) To ensure the maintenance of a single standard in the implementation of urban development projects planned and carried out by the government, and to establish a system to consolidate such projects;
(c) To state the fundamental standards for the development of urban areas;
(d) To facilitate the development and advancement of urban areas in an economically, socially, culturally, and environmentally sustainable manner;
(e) To facilitate the structuring of development projects in a manner that builds a resilient society in the development of urban areas;
(f) To facilitate increased public participation in the phases of urban area development.

Chapter Two
Enforcement of the Act

Urban Development Policy
3.
(a) The national policy regarding the designation of urban areas and the development and management of urban areas under this Act shall be determined by the President of the Republic on the advice of the Cabinet of Ministers.
(b) The national policy regarding the designation of urban areas and the development and management of urban areas shall be determined and published under subsection (a) of this Article.
(c) The Minister shall bear the primary responsibility for implementing this Act, by overseeing whether the parties entrusted with the responsibility of implementing the national policy formulated under this Act concerning the designation of urban areas and the development and management of urban areas are robustly carrying out their duties.

Responsibilities of the Ministry
4.
The responsibilities to be performed by the Ministry in implementing this Act are stated below.
(a) To publish the policies formulated under Article 3 of this Act and provide general guidance and advice required by government agencies regarding these policies;
(b) To provide advice to the President of the Republic regarding the designation of individual areas as urban areas under this Act;
(c) To provide necessary technical advice to parties undertaking development projects in urban areas in the formulation of their development plans;
(d) To maintain consistency between the policies formulated under this Act regarding the designation of urban areas and the development and management of such areas, and the policies formulated under the Built Environment Planning and Management Act;
(e) To collect, maintain, and publish statistics, bulletins, and monographs related to the planning and development of urban areas;
(f) To carry out all necessary activities related to the implementation and administration of this Act within the scope defined in this Act.

Urban Development Authority
5.
(a) Upon the commencement of this Act, a government agency named the "Urban Development Authority" is hereby established to prepare the Urban Area Development Master Plan for urban areas designated under this Act, to issue development permits to parties developing such areas, and to coordinate the development work carried out by such parties in those areas.
(b) With the establishment of the Urban Development Authority under subsection (a) of this Article, all legal responsibilities, employees, obligations, assets, resources, and privileges of the department or division for urban planning and urban development that was operating under the Ministry prior to the commencement of this Act are transferred to the Authority, in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
(c) The Authority established under subsection (a) of this Article shall operate under the Ministry. And, the Minister shall be answerable to the People's Majlis regarding the administration of the Authority.
(d) The Ministry shall provide the employees and other resources necessary for the Authority to fully carry out the duties and responsibilities assigned to it under this Act.

Responsibilities of the Authority
6.
The responsibilities of the Urban Development Authority are stated below.
(a) To prepare the Urban Area Development Master Plan for urban areas;
(b) To identify the urban development projects required for the development of urban areas and their respective zones, and to facilitate the implementation of these projects in consultation with relevant parties;
(c) To accept applications for urban area development permits submitted by developers of such areas, and to make a decision on these applications as prescribed in this Act;
(d) To monitor development activities in urban areas to ensure they comply with the Urban Area Development Master Plan designated for those areas and the development principles and standards stated in this Act;
(e) To determine ways to integrate social and economic services established in urban areas and the main infrastructure established in the area;
(f) To establish urban regeneration standards in conjunction with Local Councils to improve the social and economic conditions of areas where the built environment has deteriorated due to age or where the built environment has not been adequately developed for a dignified life due to overcrowding and congestion, and to redevelop such areas;
(g) To take action against developers of urban areas under Chapter Five of this Act in situations requiring such action, as prescribed in that chapter;
(h) To review complaints submitted under the complaint submission system established under this Act regarding developers of urban areas or their development work, and to take action on such complaints as prescribed in this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

Formation of Committees, Panels, and Working Groups
7.
(a) The Minister is empowered to form technical committees, panels, or working groups to provide technical advice to the Ministry or the Authority on matters related to the designation of urban areas and the planning and development of urban areas, in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.
(b) The technical committees, panels, or working groups formed under this Article shall include technical personnel from the Ministry and relevant government agencies, and technical personnel appointed to represent civil society organizations and/or private parties.
(c) The following matters concerning the technical committees, panels, or working groups formed under this Article shall be stated in the regulations made under this Act.
(1) The fields from which members of the committee, panel, or working group must be composed and the principles and procedures for appointing members to such committees;
(2) The purpose for which the committee, panel, or working group is formed, and the responsibilities assigned to the committee, panel, or working group;
(3) The manner in which meetings of the committee, panel, or working group shall be held, and the principles to be followed in decision-making by the committee, panel, or working group;
(4) The principles for the administration of the committees, panels, or working groups and other related matters.

Chapter Three
Designation and Planning of Urban Areas

Designation of an Urban Area
8.
Urban areas in the Maldives shall be designated by the President of the Republic on the advice of the Minister, as prescribed in this Act.

Urban Areas
9.
(a) The following types of areas may be designated as urban areas under this Act.
(1) Metropolitan Area;
(2) Urban Region;
(3) Urban Center.
(b) For the purpose of subsection (a)(1) of this Article, "Metropolitan Area" refers to areas where the total resident population or the total planned population for settlement is greater than 150,000 (one hundred and fifty thousand).
(c) For the purpose of subsection (a)(2) of this Article, "Urban Region" refers to areas comprising one or more urban centers, where the total resident population or the total planned population for settlement is greater than 50,000 (fifty thousand).
(d) For the purpose of subsection (a)(3) of this Article, "Urban Center" refers to areas that fulfill the criteria for designation as a city under the Decentralization Act, and where the total resident population or the total planned population for settlement is greater than 10,000 (ten thousand).
(e) Urban areas designated under subsection (a) of this Article may be classified into different grades, taking into account the infrastructure and services established or planned to be established, as prescribed in the regulations made under this Act.
(f) This Act does not prevent the designation of an inhabited or uninhabited island or islands of the Maldives as a single Urban Center, a single Urban Region, or a single Metropolitan Area when designating an urban area under this Article.

Jurisdiction of an Urban Area
10.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision in any other law, where a specific area designated as an urban area under this Act falls within the jurisdiction of a Local Council, the planning and development of that area shall be carried out as prescribed in this Act.
(b) If an area designated as an urban area is part of an inhabited island or city belonging to a Local Council, that council shall have the full power and authority to provide municipal services and carry out other municipal functions that fall under the council's responsibilities as per the Decentralization Act. Concurrently, the Authority shall have the authority to carry out matters related to the planning and development of that area.
(c) All matters concerning the development of an area within the jurisdiction of a Local Council designated as an urban area shall be carried out under a written agreement between the council and the Authority, in a manner that includes the role of the respective council, as prescribed in the regulations made under this Act.
(d) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of this Article, upon completion of the planning of the urban area and the development projects carried out in that area, the jurisdiction granted to the Authority under this Act for the planning and development of that area shall cease.
(e) If an area designated as an urban area is uninhabited and does not fall under the jurisdiction of any Local Council, all matters concerning the planning and development of that area shall be carried out by the Authority.
(f) Notwithstanding subsection (e) of this Article, upon the commencement of population settlement in the urban area, the Local Council to which the area belongs shall have the full power and authority to provide municipal services and other public services to the people as per the Decentralization Act and to make all necessary decisions related to such matters. And, upon completion of the development projects in such areas, the jurisdiction granted to the Authority under this Act for the planning and development of those areas shall cease.

Designation of Zones and Zone Uses in Urban Areas
11.
(a) When designating urban areas under Article 9 of this Act, all land within those areas shall be divided into separate zones, and the use of each zone shall be determined.
(b) The separate zones designated within an urban area may be specified for the following uses.
(1) Residential use: A zone designated for housing and related facilities;
(2) Commercial use: A zone designated for carrying out commercial and retail activities;
(3) Industrial use: A zone designated for manufacturing, processing, and industrial operations;
(4) Agricultural use: A zone designated for agriculture and related activities;
(5) Recreational use: A zone designated for the establishment of parks, sports facilities, and other amenities that provide leisure;
(6) Mixed-use: A zone designated for development that combines various land uses;
(7) Conservation use: A zone protected to preserve its natural habitats, cultural heritage, and ecological diversity;
(8) Special use: A zone designated for special purposes determined by the Ministry.

Determining the Land Use of Zones
12.
When designating land within an urban area into separate zones under Article 11 of this Act, the following matters concerning the use of those zones shall be determined.
(a) Stating the primary purpose and character of land use for each zone;
(b) Establishing the conditions and procedures for land use in each zone and ensuring that these are consistent with the primary purposes of the zone;
(c) Prohibiting any development or undesirable development activity within a zone that is inconsistent with the primary purposes of its land use.

Zoning Map
13.
(a) The Authority shall prepare and publish a Zoning Map that clearly defines the boundaries of the urban areas designated under Article 9 of this Act and the boundaries of the zones within those areas, and states the categories of those areas and zones.
(b) The Zoning Map mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be updated, maintained, and published by the Authority, taking into account changes to the built environment of the area and other changing circumstances and conditions.

Planning of an Urban Area
14.
(a) An Urban Area Development Master Plan shall be formulated and published for each urban area.
(b) The Urban Area Development Master Plan shall be formulated in accordance with the goals set out in the national development plan and the policies established by the government regarding the planning and management of the built environment.
(c) The Urban Area Development Master Plan shall be formulated by the Authority.
(d) The Urban Area Development Master Plan for urban areas designated under this Act shall be formulated in accordance with the principles and standards established for the formulation of physical development plans under the Built Environment Planning and Management Act and its regulations. Furthermore, such formulated plans must meet the relevant standards stated in this Act and the regulations made hereunder.
(e) The Urban Area Development Master Plan shall be formulated in accordance with the zones of the urban areas and the uses designated for the zones as specified under Article 11 of this Act.
(f) After formulating the Urban Area Development Master Plan, the Authority shall submit the plan to the Ministry for approval. The approval of Urban Area Development Master Plans shall follow the same procedures established for approving physical development plans under the Built Environment Planning and Management Act and its regulations.
(g) The Urban Area Development Master Plan cannot be implemented until it is approved as stated in subsection (f) of this Article.
(h) If an area for which an Urban Area Development Master Plan is formulated and approved under this Article is an area for which a physical development plan was formulated and approved under the Built Environment Planning and Management Act prior to its designation as an urban area, that physical development plan shall be reviewed to be consistent with the Urban Area Development Master Plan formulated and approved for that urban area.

Chapter Four
Development of Urban Areas

Developer
15.
(a) Urban areas shall be developed by the party designated by the government to carry out the development work of that area.
(b) This Act does not prevent the party entrusted by the government with the development of urban areas from assigning the practical development work planned for that area to a specific party or parties, as prescribed in the regulations made under this Act.

Development Permit
16.
(a) An urban area or a specific zone or part of it may only be developed after applying for and obtaining an urban area development permit as prescribed in this Act.
(b) Parties developing an urban area must apply to the Authority for a development permit.

Application for Permit
17.
(a) An application for an urban area development permit must include the following information or items.
(1) The area designated as an urban area under Chapter Three of this Act, and its zones and uses;
(2) The approved Urban Area Development Master Plan for the urban area;
(3) The Construction Plan prepared in relation to the development works;
(4) Environmental Impact Assessment Report;
(5) Social Impact Assessment Report;
(6) Economic Impact Assessment Report;
(7) Transport Impact Assessment Report;
(8) Critical Infrastructure Assessment Report;
(9) Public Utility Services Assessment Report;
(10) The planned start date for the practical development works, and the estimated duration to complete the entire project and its various parts or phases;
(11) Any other information and documents specified in the regulations made under this Act.
(b) The procedures for preparing the plans and reports mentioned in subsections (a)(3) to (a)(9) of this Article, and the essential information and standards to be included in those documents shall be stated in the regulations made under this Act.

Consultation Regarding the Issuance of a Development Permit
18.
(a) The Authority shall consult with the following parties regarding the following matters included in an application for a development permit.
(1) In general, on the development proposal, with the committees, panels, or working groups formed under Article 7 of this Act;
(2) In general, on the development proposal, with the City, Island, or Atoll Council to which the area belongs;
(3) Regarding the Construction Plan included in the development proposal, with the government ministry responsible for implementing construction policies;
(4) Regarding the Public Utility Services Assessment Report included in the development proposal, with the Utility Regulatory Authority;
(5) Regarding the Environmental Impact Assessment Report included in the development proposal, with the government ministry responsible for implementing policies on environmental protection and conservation;
(6) Regarding any other matter in the development proposal, with any other party that the Ministry deems necessary to consult.
(b) The parties to be consulted under subsection (a) of this Article shall be sent the information regarding the development proposal and all relevant documents. A period of at least 15 (fifteen) days from the date the information is sent shall be given for them to submit their views on the information.

Seeking Public Opinion on Permit Issuance
19.
(a) If an application for a development permit for an urban area is submitted under Article 17 of this Act, an opportunity must be given to seek the opinions of people living in that area or an adjacent area, and all parties who have an interest in that area.
(b) A reasonable period shall be given for the public to submit their opinions during the opportunity provided for seeking opinions under subsection (a) of this Article. And, adequate consultations shall be conducted in an open forum, including the government's project developer and the Authority.
(c) A report detailing how the public consultation process was conducted under this Article, the opinions and advice received from the public, and the decisions made by the Authority regarding these matters shall be prepared and published.

Deciding on the Issuance of a Permit
20.
(a) The Authority shall not make a decision on a proposal submitted for an urban area development permit under Article 17 of this Act until after considering the following matters.
(1) The advice and guidance provided by the committees, panels, or working groups formed under Article 7 of this Act regarding the matters included in the development proposal;
(2) The opinions and proposals submitted by the parties mentioned in Article 18(a) of this Act;
(3) The report prepared under Article 19(c) of this Act.
(b) After completing the matters stated in Article 18 and Article 19 of this Act regarding a development proposal submitted under Article 17, the Authority shall make a decision on the proposal in one of the following ways.
(1) Approve the development proposal as submitted to the Authority and issue the development permit; or
(2) Approve the proposal with amendments deemed necessary by the Authority and issue the development permit; or
(3) Return the proposal submitted to the Authority for re-review or return it with specific instructions for its review.
(c) The Authority shall inform the party that submitted the development proposal of the decision made under subsection (b) of this Article within a maximum of 14 (fourteen) days from the date the decision is made.
(d) A report containing the decision made by the Authority under this Article and the matters considered in making the decision shall be prepared and published publicly.

Stipulating Additional Conditions
21.
When approving a development proposal and issuing a development permit under Article 20(b)(1) or (2) of this Act, the permit may be issued with additional conditions that the Authority deems important for the optimal development of the urban area to which the permit relates and in a manner most consistent with the designated uses of its zones. In this regard, the Authority may stipulate the following conditions.
(a) The maintenance of historical buildings that must be preserved as part of the developed area;
(b) Carrying out the development work in a manner that ensures the protection of the landscape, protected trees, and other natural resources on the land planned for development or on adjacent land;
(c) The protection of buildings existing in the developed area or adjacent to it;
(d) Taking the measures required by the impact assessments submitted under Article 17(a) of this Act to mitigate potential changes or damages to various sectors resulting from the urban area development.

Determining the Development Period
22.
(a) When approving a development proposal and issuing a development permit under Article 20(b)(1) or (2) of this Act, the Authority shall specify a certain period for the completion of the development work to which the permit pertains, and this period shall be stated in the permit issued.
(b) If the practical development works have not commenced within a maximum of 2 (two) years from the date of issuance of a development permit issued under Article 20(b)(1) or (2) of this Act, the permit shall become void.
(c) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of this Article, if a party to whom a development permit has been issued wishes to extend the period given for development under subsection (a) of this Article, they must submit a written request to the Authority before the expiration of the permit's validity, stating the reasons why the development work cannot be completed within that period.
(d) If a request for an extension of the period is submitted under subsection (c) of this Article, the Authority has the discretion to extend the validity of the permit as prescribed in the regulations made under this Act.

Regulation on Issuing Development Permits
23.
The matters to be considered by the Authority in issuing the development permits stated in this chapter, the standards for issuing permits, the categories of permits, the information to be included in the permit, and other related principles and procedures shall be stated in the regulations made under this Act.

Development Standards
24.
(a) The Authority shall determine the standards to be maintained by developers in the development of urban areas, and these shall be stated in the regulations made under this Act.
(b) In determining the standards for the development of land in an urban area under subsection (a) of this Article, the following matters shall be determined with reference to each zone of the urban area.
(1) Principles for determining the permitted development densities, floor area ratios, and building coverage percentages on the land of the zone;
(2) Principles for determining the maximum building height standard on the land of the zone, and principles for maintaining the uniformity of the visible surrounding environment;
(3) Principles for determining the land transport system of the zone, considering the planned population for the zone and its size;
(4) Principles for establishing means of protection from natural or other disasters in the zone;
(5) Other principles and standards to be maintained in the development of the area in a manner that best achieves the purpose of developing the zones of the urban area.
(c) In addition to the development standards established in this Act and the regulations made hereunder, developers of urban areas must comply with the principles and standards mandated for them in any general law specifying the procedures for carrying out construction development works or any specific law applicable to a particular type of development work.

Public Utility Services
25.
(a) Parties developing urban areas must complete the development of the area together with the establishment of the public utility services required for that area.
(b) Public utility services in urban areas shall be established in accordance with the special laws related to public utility services and the regulations made thereunder, and in accordance with the standards set by the Utility Regulatory Authority.

Transport System
26.
(a) Parties developing urban areas must complete the development of the area together with the establishment of a transport system suitable for that area.
(b) The transport system of urban areas shall be established in accordance with the standards set under relevant laws and with relevant international standards.

Cooperation in Law Enforcement
27.
The parties designated by the government under this Act for the planning and development of urban areas, the parties to whom the practical development work of the urban area has been assigned by any such party, and other relevant government agencies shall provide full cooperation to one another in implementing this Act in the most complete manner and in developing the urban area in accordance with the established plans and standards.

Working at a Reasonably Fast Pace
28.
The parties designated by the government under this Act for the planning and development of urban areas, the parties to whom the practical development work of the urban area has been assigned by any such party, and other relevant government agencies shall, in implementing this Act or in carrying out any practical work at any stage of planning and developing an urban area, complete that work within the fastest possible time suitable for the situation.

Areas Not to be Developed
29.
Even if a specific area is designated as an urban area and its development is decided under this Act, no area or place of the following types within such an area shall be developed in any way that causes any detriment to its natural environment or in a way that does not allow for its adequate protection and preservation.
(a) Protected area;
(b) Archaeological site;
(c) The natural landscape, protected flora, and other natural resources of that area.

Chapter Five
Compliance

Acting in Accordance with the Law
30.
(a) The party to whom a permit is issued shall act in accordance with the development permit issued under Article 20(b) of this Act, the conditions and periods stipulated in it, and the development standards established in this Act and the regulations made hereunder.
(b) If the party to whom a permit is issued has not acted in accordance with the Urban Area Development Master Plan approved under the relevant law, the development permit issued by the Authority under Article 20(b) of this Act, the conditions and periods stipulated by the Authority in it, and the development standards established in this Act and the regulations made hereunder, or if development work is carried out without obtaining a development permit, it shall be considered a violation of this Act.

Taking Action
31.
The following measures, or any one of them, may be taken against developing parties who act in violation of this Act.
(a) Issuing a warning notice;
(b) Issuing a compliance notice;
(c) Issuing a stop-work notice;
(d) Imposing a fine.

Warning Notice
32.
(a) If it appears to the Authority that a developing party has violated this Act, the Authority shall send a warning notice to the developing party as soon as possible after receiving information of the violation, and within a maximum of 4 (four) years.
(b) While a warning notice has been issued to a developing party for a violation of this Act under subsection (a) of this Article, the Authority shall not take any further action under this Act against that party regarding the matter for which the notice was issued, before the period in the notice expires.
(c) The information to be included in the notice mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article and the notifications to be given to the parties to whom the notice is served shall be stated in the regulations made under this Act.
(d) If a warning notice as mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article has not been issued, it shall be considered that the developing party has acted in accordance with this Act. And in such a situation, the Authority does not have the right to take any action under this Act to rectify the work done by issuing a notice under this Article.

Compliance Notice
33.
(a) The Authority may issue a compliance notice to a developing party in the following circumstances.
(1) Violation of the development proposal approved under this Act;
(2) Violation of the development standards stated in this Act;
(3) Violation of the development permit issued under this Act or the conditions and periods stipulated in its issuance;
(4) Violation of the Urban Area Development Master Plan approved under the relevant law.
(b) If a compliance notice is issued to a developing party under subsection (a) of this Article, other parties with an interest in the urban area under development who may be affected by the notice, as deemed by the Authority, shall be informed that the notice has been issued.
(c) The purposes of issuing a notice under subsection (a) of this Article are stated below.
(1) To carry out the development works in accordance with the development proposal approved under this Act;
(2) To rectify a violation of the conditions or periods stipulated in the development permit issued under this Act;
(3) To carry out the development works in accordance with the development standards stated in this Act and the regulations made hereunder, or to rectify the work done and redo it in accordance with those standards;
(4) To rectify development works done or being done in violation of the Urban Area Development Master Plan;
(5) To recover from damage caused to the environment as a result of a violation of this Act.
(d) A compliance notice issued under this Article must clearly state the following matters.
(1) The matters that appear to the Authority to have been done in violation of this Act;
(2) The steps to be taken to achieve the purposes stated in subsection (c) of this Article;
(3) The maximum period that will be given to take the steps in sub-subsection (2) of this subsection;
(4) That the Authority or a party designated by the Authority has the power and authority to enter the premises to take the steps in sub-subsection (2) of this subsection.

Reviewing a Compliance Notice
34.
(a) A party to whom a compliance notice is served may, within 20 (twenty) days of receiving the notice, submit a complaint to the Authority under Article 39 of this Act requesting a review of the notice.
(b) Following a review of a compliance notice under a submission made under Article 39 of this Act with reference to subsection (a) of this Article, the Authority may decide to postpone the enforcement of the notice, amend the notice, or withdraw it.
(c) If the Authority finds that the notice cannot be acted upon in any of the ways stated in subsection (b) of this Article, it may decide that the notice is a valid notice and that it cannot be reviewed.
(d) A submission to review a notice under Article 39 of this Act with reference to subsection (a) of this Article shall, within a maximum of 20 (twenty) days from the date the submission is received by the agency, be decided upon under subsection (b) or (c) of this Article, and the party who submitted the request for review shall be informed of the decision.
(b) The manner of applying for a review of a notice under this Article and the principles to be followed by the Authority in making a decision on such submissions shall be stated in the regulations made under this Act.

Stop-Work Notice
35.
(a) If a compliance notice is sent to a party under Article 33 of this Act and that party has not acted upon the notice within the period specified therein, the Authority shall send a stop-work notice to that party to halt the development work they are carrying out.
(b) The notice mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be sent to the developing party who is in violation of the law and to all parties who are responsible for the matter.
(c) The issuance of a notice under subsection (a) of this Article shall be communicated for the information of the parties residing in the area under development.
(d) A stop-work notice issued under this Article shall include the following matters.
(1) A copy of the compliance notice related to the act to which the notice pertains;
(2) An order to cease the violation of the law, and the period given to cease the violation;
(3) The measures that will be taken if the order is not complied with within the period stated in the notice;
(4) That the party to whom the notice is served has the right to submit a request for a review of the notice under Article 39 of this Act.

Applying for a Permit to Resume Work
36.
(a) The party to whom a stop-work notice is served under Article 35 of this Act shall comply with the notice and stop the work within the period specified in the notice.
(b) A party to whom a stop-work notice is served may resume the work they were carrying out only after rectifying all matters ordered to be corrected in the compliance notice issued under Article 33 of this Act, applying to the Authority for a permit to resume work, and obtaining such a permit.
(c) The procedure for parties whose development work has been halted by order of the Authority to apply for a new permit, and the principles to be followed by the Authority in issuing such a permit shall be stated in the regulations made under this Act.

Imposing a Fine
37.
(a) If the parties to whom a compliance notice under Article 33 of this Act or a stop-work notice under Article 35 of this Act is served do not act in accordance with them, the Authority has the discretion to fine such a party as stated in this Article.
(b) When imposing a fine as stated in subsection (a) of this Article, the fine shall be a maximum of 5% (five percent) of the project's value if the development project is a project of more than MVR 20,000,000 (twenty million). And if the project is smaller than that amount, the fine shall be a minimum of 1% (one percent) of the project's value.
(c) If, after the fine stated in subsection (b) of this Article is imposed, the party continues to act in violation of the notice, that party may be fined an amount not exceeding MVR 1,000 (one thousand) for each day the violation is not rectified.
(d) The rules and standards for imposing fines under this Article shall be stated in the regulations made under this Act.

Enforcing a Notice
38.
(a) In relation to a compliance notice or a stop-work notice, to check whether the matters stated in those notices have been enforced, officers authorized by the Authority have the power to enter and inspect the place mentioned in the notice at a reasonable time of day after giving 48 (forty-eight) hours' notice.
(b) If, during an inspection conducted under subsection (a) of this Article, it is noted by the Authority that the parties to whom the notice was served have not taken adequate steps to enforce the compliance notice or have not stopped the work in accordance with the stop-work notice, the Authority or a party designated by the Authority has the power to take further action to enforce the steps ordered in the compliance notice or to stop the work as per the stop-work notice, as prescribed in the regulations made under this Act.
(c) The party or parties ordered to enforce the compliance notice or the stop-work notice shall be responsible for the costs incurred in relation to any action taken by the Authority or a party designated by the Authority to enforce the compliance notice or the stop-work notice as stated in subsection (b) of this Article.
(d) If the place to be inspected under subsection (a) of this Article is an inhabited place, it shall be entered only after obtaining the permission of the owner of the place. Or, if such permission is not available, under a court order.
(b) The notice given before entering a place mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article must state the reason for entering the place and the estimated time the party authorized for the purpose will take to inspect the place.
(f) The authorized officer who goes to inspect a place under this Article must have an official written document from the Authority authorizing them to do so. And, if a party with an interest in the place wishes to see the document, it must be shown to them.
(g) If, during the inspection of a specific area or place by an officer authorized by the Authority, any damage is caused to the area or place or to any object in the area or place, a party shall be appointed by the Authority to assess the extent of the damage, and if compensation is to be paid based on the damage caused, that compensation shall be paid without delay to the party who suffered the damage.

Chapter Six
Complaint Submission and Case Review

Submitting a Complaint to the Authority
39.
Any party with a vested interest has the right to submit a complaint to the Authority regarding the following matters.
(a) The return of a development proposal without issuing a development permit for an urban area;
(b) The stipulation of additional conditions with a development permit;
(c) The issuance of a compliance notice or a stop-work notice to a developing party;
(d) The interest of another party on that land being affected due to a decision by the Authority not to issue a compliance notice or a stop-work notice to a developing party;
(e) The interest of a party being affected due to an action taken or a decision made by the Authority, in addition to the matters stated in subsections (a) to (d) of this Article;
(f) A party suffering a loss due to any party violating this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

Submitting and Accepting a Complaint
40.
(a) The procedure for submitting a complaint under Article 39 of this Act, the principles to be followed in reviewing the complaint, and the principles regarding the action to be taken by the Authority after reviewing the matter shall be stated in the regulations made under this Act. And a period within which complaints submitted under this Act will be reviewed and decided by the Authority shall be stated in that regulation.
(b) Unless otherwise stated in this Act, a complaint under Article 39 of this Act may be submitted only within a maximum of 30 (thirty) days from the occurrence of the act to which the complaint relates.
(c) The system for reviewing complaints submitted to the Authority under subsection (a) of this Article and the committee to be formed to review complaints shall be established and constituted by the Authority within 60 (sixty) days from the commencement of this Act. And the Authority shall make the necessary arrangements for various parties to easily submit the complaints they wish to submit.
(d) If, in relation to a complaint submitted by any party, the Authority finds, based on reasonable grounds, that the complaint has no merit, the Authority shall, within 7 (seven) days of making that decision, inform the party who submitted the complaint of the decision made by the Authority and its reasons.

Investigating a Matter on Own Initiative
41.
The Authority may investigate the following types of matters on its own initiative in the following circumstances.
(a) Matters where the Authority believes that a development permit for an urban area or a condition stipulated in the permit has been violated;
(b) Matters where the Authority believes that a compliance notice or a stop-work notice sent to a developing party under this Act has been violated;
(c) Matters where the Authority believes that any party has violated this Act and a development standard established by the Authority hereunder;
(d) Matters where the Authority believes that any party has violated an order given by the Authority to act in accordance with this Act and other relevant laws;
(e) Other matters that the Authority believes should be investigated based on a reasonable cause.

Procedures to be Completed in Investigating a Matter
42.
The following procedures shall be completed when the Authority investigates matters under Article 39 and Article 41 of this Act.
(a) Informing the party who submitted a matter or complaint in writing that the matter or complaint has been registered with the Authority;
(b) Giving the party to whom the matter pertains an opportunity to respond to the matter;
(c) Upon completion of the investigation of the matter, informing the party who submitted the matter and the party to whom the matter pertains of the decision made by the Authority in writing.

Report on the Outcome of the Matter
43.
(a) After the Committee investigates a matter under Article 39 and Article 41 of this Act, a report shall be prepared.
(b) The report prepared under subsection (a) of this Article shall include the following matters.
(1) How the matter was investigated;
(2) The findings made by the Committee during the investigation of the matter;
(3) The evidence on which the information and findings in sub-subsection (2) of this subsection are based;
(4) Matters that the Authority sees or proposes in relation to the matter or related to it, and the decision of the Authority.

Reviewing the Authority's Decision
44.
(a) If a person believes that their rights have been infringed by a decision made by the Authority in relation to a complaint submitted under Article 39 of this Act or in an investigation of a matter on the Authority's own initiative under Article 41 of this Act, that person has the right to submit a request to the Ministry to review that decision.
(b) The procedures for submitting a request to review a decision made by the Authority under subsection (a) of this Article, and the principles for conducting the review shall be stated in the regulations made under this Act.
(c) A review committee shall be established in the Ministry to review matters submitted for review under this Article.

Submitting a Matter to Court
45.
(a) After a decision is made by the Ministry's review committee as per Article 44 of this Act, if the party who submitted the matter does not accept the reasons stated in the notification sent to them, that party has the right to submit the matter to court within 30 (thirty) days of receiving that document.
(b) The right to submit a matter to court under subsection (a) of this Article is granted to any party only after completing the procedures stated in the regulations made under Article 44 of this Act.

Chapter Seven
Other Matters

Disclosure of Information
46.
(a) Information regarding the Urban Area Development Master Plans approved for urban areas under the relevant law, and the development permits issued under this Act, shall be published by the Authority as prescribed in the regulations made under this Act.
(b) If the Authority or the Ministry deems it necessary to publish information about a notice or other decision issued under this Act to bring it to the attention of all affected parties, that information shall be published as prescribed in the regulations made under this Act.
(c) The report prepared as per Article 43 of this Act after the committee formed under Article 40(c) of this Act investigates a matter shall be publicly published.
(d) Notwithstanding subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this Article, the information and reports mentioned in those subsections, or any part thereof, shall not be published or disclosed in the following circumstances.
(1) The publication or disclosure of the information or report, or part of it, would reveal a trade secret of a person or a company; or
(2) There is a possibility of obstructing an ongoing investigation related to a criminal matter; or
(3) There is a possibility of obstructing the fairness of a trial being conducted against a person; or
(4) There is a possibility of endangering national security.
(b) When publishing any information under this Article, if it contains any personal or private information of any person, that part shall be redacted from the information to the extent that it is not disclosed, and the part of the information that can be published shall be published.

Legal Protection
47.
(a) No civil or criminal proceedings shall be brought against any employee working under the instruction of the Ministry or the Authority in an official capacity, for an act done in good faith or for an act omitted, for the purpose of enforcing this Act and the regulations made hereunder, in performing the responsibilities of the Ministry or the Authority, and in acting under the powers granted by this Act, in accordance with the law, or within the scope of a power granted by law.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, an employee working under the instruction of the Ministry or the Authority shall be held responsible for any damage caused by an intentional act or negligence, under the relevant laws and regulations.

Levying a Fee or Charge
48.
The Authority may levy a fee or charge, as stipulated in the regulations made under this Act, in relation to the services provided by the Authority under this Act.

Making Regulations
49.
(a) Unless otherwise stated in this Act, all regulations required to be made under this Act for its implementation shall be made and administered by the Ministry.
(b) In addition to the matters for which regulations are explicitly required to be made in this Act, the Ministry shall make regulations regarding the following matters.
(1) Regulation on the designation of urban areas, and the classification and grading of such areas;
(2) Regulation on determining the jurisdiction of urban areas;
(3) Regulation on the formation of technical committees, panels, or working groups, and the administration of such committees, panels, or working groups;
(4) Regulation on conducting the assessments required to be completed with an application for an urban area development permit;
(5) Regulation on issuing development permits, and monitoring and taking action against the work of developers;
(6) Regulation regarding the development standards to be followed by developers of urban areas;
(7) Regulation on submitting complaints under the Act, and reviewing and taking action on complaints.
(c) Unless explicitly stated otherwise in this Act, the regulations required to be made under this Act shall be made and published in the Government Gazette within a maximum of 3 (three) months from the date this Act comes into force.

Commencement of the Act
50.
This Act shall come into force upon the completion of 6 (six) months from the date this Act is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette.

Definitions
51.
Unless the context in which a word or phrase is used in this Act clearly indicates otherwise, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given below.
(a) "Ministry" refers to the government ministry to which the responsibility of implementing urban development policies is assigned at the time.
(b) "Minister" refers to the minister of the government ministry to which the responsibility of implementing urban development policies is assigned at the time.
(c) "Urban area" refers to any area designated as an urban area in accordance with this Act.
(d) "Urban Development Authority" or "Authority" refers to the authority established under Article 5 of this Act to formulate plans for urban areas and to coordinate the development of such areas.
(e) "Urban Area Development Master Plan" refers to the Physical Development Plan formulated and approved for urban areas under the Built Environment Planning and Management Act.
(f) "Developer" refers to the party assigned by the government to develop an urban area, and the parties to whom the practical development work planned for that area is assigned by any such party.
(g) "Development" refers to the new construction of an area or the further improvement of the construction of an area to bring urban areas to a state where their designated purpose or purposes can be achieved, in order to implement national development goals and urban area development policies. This includes land reclamation, excavation, sand dredging, construction works, engineering works, and all other construction works carried out underground, on the ground, or above ground.
(h) "Public utility service" refers to the services of water, sewerage, electricity, and waste management in the Maldives.
(i) "Special laws related to public utility services" refers to the laws made for the operation and management of water, sewerage, electricity, and waste management in the Maldives, and the regulations made under those laws.
(j) "Utility Regulatory Authority" refers to the authority established under Article 3 of the Utility Regulatory Authority Act (Act No. 26/2020).
(k) "Land transport system" refers to the roads designated for driving land vehicles, bridges, and roads, alleys, and areas designated for walking and driving on private and state-owned land, and roads, alleys, and areas made for public driving and walking on land leased for private, industrial, or other purposes.
(l) "Built Environment Planning and Management Act" refers to the Built Environment Planning and Management Act (Act No. 16/2024) and all amendments made to it, and in the event that Act is repealed, includes all new laws formulated in relation to the scope of that Act.
(m) "City Council" or "Island Council" or "Local Council" refers to an Island Council, City Council, or Atoll Council established under the Decentralization Act (Act No. 7/2010).
(n) "Protected area" refers to an area designated as an area to be protected for its natural or environmental sustenance under the Environmental Protection and Preservation Act of Maldives (Act No. 4/93).
(o) "Archaeological site" refers to an area designated as an archaeological site under the Cultural Heritage Act of the Maldives (Act No. 12/2019).
(p) "Decentralization Act" refers to the Act on Decentralized Administration of Administrative Divisions of the Maldives (Act No. 7/2010) and includes the relevant regulations made under that Act.
