UTILITY REGULATORY AUTHORITY ACT

CHAPTER ONE
INTRODUCTION

Introduction and Name

1.
(a) This is the Act to establish an Authority to regulate matters related to the provision of public utility services, to determine the responsibilities and powers of that Authority, and to establish the general principles for the planning and operation of public utility services.

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Utility Regulatory Authority Act".

Objectives

    The main objectives of this Act are set out below.

(a) To make public utility services available to all residents of the Maldives at a reasonable price, in a robust, reliable, and sustainable manner.

(b) To shape public utility services to be efficient and environmentally friendly.

(c) To make public utility services ones that meet the needs of the people and are provided successfully at a good standard.

(d) To ensure fairness and justice in the provision of public utility services, while establishing a competitive environment and facilitating the development of services.

(e) To establish and enforce general principles to be followed in the provision of public utility services.

(f) To establish a system to monitor whether providers of public utility services are acting in accordance with this Act and specific laws related to public utility services, and to take action.

(g) To work towards increasing public awareness regarding the rights of those who receive public utility services and the providers of such services.

CHAPTER TWO
UTILITY REGULATORY AUTHORITY

Establishment of the Authority

3.
(a) Upon the commencement of this Act, a government agency by the name of the "Utility Regulatory Authority" is hereby established to determine the principles for regulating and managing all matters related to the provision of public utility services and to carry out all necessary actions to enforce this Act.

(b) The Board of Directors of the Authority shall be answerable to the Minister.

Responsibilities of the Authority

    The responsibilities of the Authority with regard to public utility services are set out below.

(a) To encourage and promote the sustainable development of the public utility services sector.

(b) To enforce the regulations and principles made for the provision and use of public utility services.

(c) To establish, promote, and develop a fair competitive environment in the provision of public utility services.

(d) To identify and stop anti-competitive business practices and actions that are contrary to the sustainable provision of services in the public utility sector.

(e) To enforce specific laws and regulations related to public utility services, and to monitor whether service providers comply with those laws and regulations.

(f) To issue licenses to providers of public utility services, and to monitor whether service providers act in accordance with the issued license, and to take necessary action.

(g) To approve service prices, control prices, and oversee other price-related matters in accordance with specific laws and regulations related to public utility services.

(h) To work towards finding solutions to the challenges faced by service providers in relation to the provision of public utility services and to provide them with necessary technical advice and assistance.

(i) To investigate and take necessary steps to resolve disputes arising from agreements made between individuals concerning public utility services.

(j) To investigate and take action on complaints and issues faced by those who use or request public utility services.

(k) To inspect and approve the places and facilities used for providing public utility services and to grant permission for the use of such places and facilities.

(d) To establish standards, guidelines, and related general regulations required for the provision of public utility services, in accordance with specific laws related to public utility services.

(m) To urge and encourage the taking of appropriate measures to mitigate climate change and protect the environment in the establishment of facilities used for providing public utility services.

(n) To raise public awareness regarding matters related to public utility services.

(o) To implement government policies related to public utility services.

(p) To encourage the reduction of waste and the improvement of quality and efficiency in the provision of public utility services.

(q) To ensure that public utility services established after the commencement of this Act utilize renewable energy to the maximum extent possible in their establishment and operation.

(r) To compile and publish statistics related to the public utility services sectors.

(s) To issue permits to technical professionals working in the public utility services sectors.

(t) To carry out all matters stated as necessary for the Authority to do under this Act or a specific law related to public utility services, and to regulate other matters related to the provision of public utility services in accordance with this Act and specific laws related to public utility services.

Expediting and Facilitating the Authority's Services

    A conducive environment shall be established to provide the Authority's services with ease and speed.

CHAPTER THREE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Board of Directors

6.
(a) There shall be a Board of Directors of the Authority, which shall be responsible for carrying out the work of the Authority.

(b) The Board shall consist of 5 (five) members.

(c) The President shall appoint and remove members of the Board.

(d) The remuneration for the members of the Board shall be determined by the Minister of Finance.

(e) Members of the Board shall be remunerated based on their attendance at Board meetings.

(f) The President shall appoint the Board of Directors referred to in clause (a) of this Article within 30 (thirty) days from the date of commencement of this Act.

Qualifications of Board Members

7.
(a) Persons appointed to the Board of Directors of the Authority shall have professional education and experience in each of the following fields.

(1) Energy sector;
(2) Water and sewerage sector;
(3) Waste management sector;
(4) Financial or economic sector;
(5) Environmental sector.

(b) In addition to possessing the education and experience specified in clause (a) of this Article, members appointed to the Board must be persons who meet the following criteria.

(1) Be a person with the academic level, competence, and work ethic to perform the duties and responsibilities of a Board member;
(2) Not have been convicted of a criminal offense within the past 5 (five) years;
(3) Not be an undischarged bankrupt;
(4) Not be a member of the Board of Directors or hold any other position in a public utility service company or an agency operating under the Authority;
(5) Not be a person who holds shares in a public utility service company or an agency operating under the Authority, either in their own name, in the name of a person appointed on their behalf, or in the name of another company in which they have a share;
(6) Not be a person elected to a position in an election specified in a law.

(c) Each member appointed to the Board under this Article shall be appointed for one (1) term of 5 (five) years.

Chairperson of the Board

8.
(a) The President shall appoint a member from among the Board members to the position of Chairperson of the Board of Directors.

(b) The responsibilities of the Chairperson of the Board are to organize and manage the work of the Board and to preside over the meetings of the Board.

(c) In the event that the Chairperson of the Board is unable to perform a required duty, the Chairperson shall delegate that duty to another member from among the Board members.

Removal from Board Membership

9.
(a) If a Board member ceases to possess any of the qualifications required by this Act, they shall be removed from the Board membership.

(b) Notwithstanding clause (a) of this Article, the President has the discretion to remove a member from office if it appears that the Chairperson or a Board member is unable to perform their duties and responsibilities before the end of their term of office, or if it appears that the Chairperson or a Board member has violated the code of conduct.

Temporary Suspension from Responsibilities

10.
(a) If there is sufficient evidence to prove a criminal offense against the Chairperson of the Board or any other member of the Board, that member shall be suspended from the responsibilities of the Board of Directors pending the investigation and conclusion of the matter.

(b) If the person suspended from responsibilities under clause (a) of this Article is the Chairperson of the Board, the President shall appoint another person to manage the affairs of the Board on a temporary basis.

Resignation

11.
(a) If a Board member wishes to resign from their position, they may do so by a letter addressed to the President. The member shall be deemed to have vacated the position upon receipt of the letter of resignation by the President.

(b) The Chairperson of the Board shall also resign in the manner prescribed in clause (a) of this Article. However, even if the Chairperson of the Board resigns from their position, as long as they do not resign from the Board membership, they shall not be considered to have resigned from the Board membership.

Responsibilities of the Board of Directors

    The responsibilities of the Board of Directors are set out below.

(a) To determine the actions to be taken by the Authority to achieve the objectives stated in Article 2 of this Act and to regulate the public utility services sector;

(b) To make the following regulations related to the administration of the Authority under this Act, and to ensure that the Authority and the Board operate in accordance with those regulations:

(1) Regulations concerning the administration of the Authority;
(2) Regulations concerning the administration of the Board;
(3) Regulation on the conduct of Board members.

(c) To prepare and approve the budget of the Authority.

Board Meetings

13.
(a) A meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held at least 2 (two) times every month.

(b) A meeting of the Board can be held with the attendance of not less than 3 (three) members, including the Chairperson of the Board.

(c) A matter shall be deemed to have been decided by the Board upon being passed by a majority of the total members of the Board.

(d) If not less than 3 (three) members of the Board wish to hold a Board meeting, they may submit a request to the Chairperson of the Board stating the reason. The Chairperson of the Board shall hold a Board meeting as proposed in the notice within 5 (five) days of receiving the notice.

(e) The Chief Executive has the discretion to submit a written request to the Chairperson of the Board to decide on a matter urgently. If the Chief Executive makes such a submission, a Board meeting shall be held within 3 (three) days of the Chairperson receiving the submission, and a decision shall be made on the matter submitted by the Chief Executive.

Conflict of Interest

14.
(a) When the Authority is investigating a matter or issue in which any member of the Board of Directors has a personal interest, benefit, or role, that member shall not participate in any capacity in the investigation or decision-making of that matter or issue. And even if it was not previously known that the matter being investigated by the Authority is a matter or issue with such an interest, benefit, or role, upon becoming aware of it, the member shall, after informing the Board, recuse themselves from investigating the matter or issue and/or from making the decisions that need to be made in relation to that issue.

(b) If a conflict of interest as described in clause (a) of this Article arises for the Chairperson of the Board, the Chairperson shall, after informing the Board, recuse themselves from investigating the matter or issue and/or from making the decisions that need to be made in relation to that issue.

(c) If the Chairperson or a member of the Board does not recuse themselves from a conflict of interest issue as described in clause (a) or (b) of this Article, it may be considered a situation for which that member can be removed from office for the purpose of Article 9 of this Act.

Conduct of Board Members

    The code of conduct formulated by the Board of Directors for the enforcement of this Act shall include the following matters.

(a) That no member of the Board of Directors, in the performance of their duties under this Act, shall accept any gift or benefit of any kind in a manner that may be biased towards a particular party, in their own name, or in the name of their spouse, or in the name of their child, or in the name of a close relative, or in the name of a person with whom they have a business or financial connection, or in the name of such a person's child.

(b) That information obtained by members in their capacity as a member of the Board of Directors is to be held in confidence, and that such information shall not be disclosed to any party except to a party to whom disclosure is required by law.

CHAPTER FOUR
ADMINISTRATION OF THE AUTHORITY

Chief Executive

16.
(a) The head of the day-to-day administration of the Authority is the Chief Executive of the Authority. This includes carrying out the day-to-day tasks required to enforce this Act in accordance with the principles determined by the Board of Directors and carrying out all matters of the Authority's administrative management.

(b) A person shall be appointed to and removed from the post of Chief Executive by the Civil Service Commission. The post is a civil service position equivalent to the level of Director General of the Civil Service.

(c) The person appointed as Chief Executive must be a person who meets the criteria stated in Article 7 of this Act as being required for members of the Board of Directors.

(d) It is the responsibility of the Chief Executive to hold the meetings of the Authority, manage the administrative affairs of the meetings, maintain the accounts, and do everything necessary for the auditing of the accounts.

(e) The Chief Executive of the Authority shall represent the Authority in matters requiring representation, except for being answerable to the People's Majlis.

(f) The Chief Executive shall be answerable to the Board of Directors in matters related to their work.

(k) The Chief Executive of the Authority appointed under this Act shall be appointed within 30 (thirty) days of the commencement of this Act.

Employees of the Authority

17.
(a) The employees of the Authority shall be civil service employees. The Maldivian Civil Service Act and the regulations made thereunder shall apply to them.

(b) The Chief Executive of the Authority shall prepare an administrative structure specifying the job categories and responsibilities of the technical and administrative staff of the Authority and submit it to the Civil Service Commission for approval with the advice of the Board.

(c) The salaries and benefits for the employees of the Authority shall be determined by the Civil Service Commission in consultation with the Board of the Authority.

Conduct of Employees

    Information obtained by an employee of the Authority in their capacity as an employee is to be held in confidence. Such information shall not be disclosed to any party except to a party to whom disclosure is required by law.

Legal Protection

    No legal action shall be brought against an employee of the Authority or a person acting on behalf of the Authority for any act done or omitted in good faith in the performance of their duties in accordance with the law and regulations.

Decentralization of Services

20.
(a) The execution of tasks related to the Authority's functions that fall within the jurisdictions of local councils shall be assigned to the respective council. A task assigned in this manner shall be assigned under an agreement made between the two parties for this purpose.

(b) It is the responsibility of the Authority to ensure that the tasks assigned to local councils under clause (a) of this Article are carried out by the councils in accordance with the agreement.

Working Free from Influence

    The employees of the Authority or any party to whom a task of the Authority is assigned shall make all decisions and carry out all actions necessary for the enforcement of this Act, free from influence and without bias towards any particular party.

CHAPTER FIVE
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE MINISTER

Responsibilities of the Ministry

22.
(a) Unless otherwise provided in any other law, the Minister shall formulate policies related to the provision of public utility services in the Maldives in a manner that achieves the objectives of this Act.

(b) When the Minister determines policies in accordance with clause (a) of this Article, the Authority shall perform its responsibilities in accordance with those policies.

(c) The Minister shall be answerable to the People's Majlis on matters related to the Authority.

(d) The Minister shall make the necessary submissions to the Cabinet of Ministers regarding public utility services and shall seek the necessary consultations from the Cabinet of Ministers.

CHAPTER SIX
GENERAL PRINCIPLES REGARDING SERVICE LICENSES

Prohibition of Providing Services Without a License

    No person shall provide any public utility service except with a license or a temporary permit issued under this Act or a specific law relating to a public utility service.

Issuance of Licenses and Permits

24.
(a) A license or temporary permit to provide a public utility service shall be issued by the Authority in accordance with the procedures established under this Act and the specific law relating to a public utility service.

(b) Unless otherwise specified in a specific law related to public utility services, the Authority shall, within a maximum of 30 (thirty) days of receiving an application for a license to provide a public utility service, inform the applicant in writing of the Authority's decision regarding the issuance of the license.

(c) The Authority may charge a pre-determined and publicly announced fee for the licenses and permits it issues.

General Conditions for Licenses

    Without prejudice to the principles established in a specific law on public utilities, the Authority may set conditions for the issuance of licenses for public utility services regulated under this Act, including the following matters:

(a) The manner in which the service is provided;
(b) A standard that ensures the minimum level of service provided to the service recipients;
(c) Standards for mitigating climate change and protecting the environment;
(d) This Act and the regulations made under this Act, and the codes of conduct, orders, and guidelines established by the Authority;
(e) Inspection, approval, and testing of facilities;
(f) Providing information to the Authority regarding the service provided;
(g) Standards for charging for public utility services;
(h) Maintaining the confidentiality of the personal information of the service recipient;
(i) Ensuring the sustainable provision of services while facilitating a competitive business environment;
(j) Non-transferability of the license to another party; and
(k) Assessing the financial and technical capacity of the service provider.

Amending License Conditions

26.
(a) The Authority has the discretion to amend or revoke a condition included in a license. Amendments to or revocation of conditions set in licenses shall be made in such a way that it does not prejudice the general nature of the issued license.

(b) Information about a change made to a license condition under clause (a) of this Article shall be communicated in writing to the service provider within a reasonable period before the change is made.

Exclusive Operating License

27.
(a) The Authority can decide to grant an exclusive operating license to any party for the provision of any public utility service only with the permission of the local council of the jurisdiction where the service is provided and if it is in the national interest, with the written permission of the President following consultation with the Cabinet of Ministers.

(b) After obtaining the written permission of the President as per this Article, the Authority has the discretion to amend, change, revoke, or include additional conditions to the exclusive operating license, taking into account the circumstances at the time.

(c) When issuing a license to an additional party to provide a public utility service in a specific jurisdictional area established under Law No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act of Maldives), if a license has previously been granted to another party to provide that service, consideration shall be given to the potential economic loss to that party and the changes in the price of the service provided.

Suspension or Revocation of License

28.
(a) If any of the following circumstances arise, after giving a reasonable period to rectify the matter and if it is not rectified, the Authority may, after giving written notice to the licensee, suspend or revoke the license issued to that party.

(1) The licensee fails to pay a required payment;
(2) The licensee violates a main condition specified in a license;
(3) The licensee violates this Act or a regulation made under this Act; or
(4) The licensee fails to comply with orders issued by the Authority regarding the service provided.

(b) The Authority has the discretion to suspend or revoke a specific part of a license when suspending or revoking a license under clause (a) of this Article, in such a way that the part of the license that is not suspended or revoked is not prejudiced.

(c) Fees and other monies paid for licenses suspended or revoked under clause (a) of this Article will not be refunded to the party that paid the fee or money.

(d) Unless otherwise determined by the Authority, upon the suspension or revocation of a license under clause (a) of this Article, the provision of the service authorized by that license shall cease.

(e) If clause (d) of this Article is violated, the Authority has the discretion to impose a fine not exceeding 500,000/- (five hundred thousand) Rufiyaa on that party, depending on the severity of the matter, and to impose a fine not exceeding 1,000/- (one thousand) Rufiyaa for each day or part of a day that the violation continues.

(f) Without prejudice to this Article, the Authority shall suspend or revoke the license of a specific licensee only if, after taking all possible measures under this Act to rectify a matter specified in clause (a) of this Article, the matter has not been rectified, or in circumstances where sufficient effort has not been made to rectify the matter.

CHAPTER SEVEN
PRICE OF SERVICE

Price of Service

29.
(a) The prices charged for public utility services must be prices determined and approved by the Authority.

(b) The licensee shall publicly publish its service prices and the method of charging in accordance with this Act, the regulations made under this Act, the orders of the Authority, and the conditions of the license.

(c) The document published by the licensee stating its services and the prices for those services shall include the following:

(1) Details about the service provided by the party;
(2) The individual prices of the services;
(3) Other services provided in connection with the service;
(4) The methods of fining for breach of the agreement between the service provider and the service recipient, and related details and amounts; and
(5) Other information as directed by the Authority.

(d) If a licensee wishes to introduce a new service or a service price not included in the service price list published by that party as specified in clause (c) of this Article, it shall be mandatory to obtain a written authorization for that service or price from the Authority.

Price Control

30.
(a) By an order of the Authority or a condition of a license, the Authority may in writing direct a licensee to comply with measures taken by the Authority to control prices, or to not charge more or less than the price published by a licensee for the purpose of price control.

(b) If a situation arises requiring price control as stated in clause (a) of this Article, and the service provider suffers a loss due to the price set by the Authority, the government shall provide assistance to cover that loss.

(c) A change to the price of a service provided by a licensee shall be made by submitting it to the Authority and obtaining permission in accordance with a procedure or formula specified in the license.

(d) If the Authority makes a change to the price of a public utility service, that change must be based on the following main principles.

(1) The prices must be fair and not unreasonably discriminatory;
(2) The prices should not be such as to damage the competitive opportunities of other service providers.

CHAPTER EIGHT
ORDERS, STANDARDS, AND GUIDELINES OF THE AUTHORITY

Orders Issued by the Authority

31.
(a) The Authority may direct licensees to act in a particular way to achieve the following:

(1) To ensure that public utility services are provided at a good standard and in a sustainable manner;
(2) To reduce waste and make services efficient in the provision of public utility services;
(3) To ensure that the facilities used for providing public utility services meet the necessary technical and safety requirements;
(4) Without conflicting with this Article, to ensure that licensees maintain fairness and a sound code of conduct in business; and
(5) To issue necessary orders in carrying out the functions of the Authority, or in exercising the powers of the Authority, or in a matter of public interest.

(b) An order issued under clause (a) of this Article shall not conflict with a specific law concerning a public utility service or with any article or the objectives of this Act.

(c) The Authority shall inform the licensee in writing of an order issued under clause (a) of this Article, stating a reasonable period to do or not to do a matter specified in the order or a matter related to the specified matter.

(d) An order issued under clause (a) of this Article may specify that it should be implemented as soon as possible. And the Authority may revoke the order when it deems fit.

(e) The manner in which the Authority issues orders to licensees and the procedures to be followed in relation to those orders shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Authority's Power to Issue Orders

    The Authority has the power to issue necessary orders against service providers in relation to matters investigated by the Authority in accordance with this Act and specific laws concerning public utility services.

Establishing the Authority's Procedures

33.
(a) To practically assist and facilitate the implementation of this Act, the Authority shall formulate its procedures regarding the provision of public utility services.

(b) The procedures made by the Authority shall not conflict with any article or objective of this Act or a specific law related to public utility services.

(c) For the purpose of clause (a) of this Article, the procedures made under this Act shall specify the manner of carrying out the following:

(1) Among the work done by the Authority, the procedures and standards that the Authority will use in issuing licenses, and the matters to be considered when issuing licenses and permits;
(2) Procedures regarding the provision of public utility services and the procedures to be followed in providing such services;
(3) Procedures to be followed in managing the administrative and operational expenses and human resources of service providers.

Technical Standards

34.
(a) The technical standards and norms to be followed with regard to the equipment and facilities for providing public utility services and their use shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

(b) Licensees and applicants for licenses for providing public utility services shall comply with the technical standards and norms established by the Authority as per clause (a) of this Article.

Making Regulations Regarding Billing for Public Utility Services

34-1.
(a) The Authority shall, in consultation with the providers of public utility services, formulate a regulation stating the main principles to be followed by providers when billing recipients for those services.

(b) The regulation referred to in clause (a) of this Article shall include the following matters:

(1) Procedures for establishing a uniform billing cycle period;
(2) Procedures for setting a minimum period to be given for bill payment;
(3) The circumstances and ways in which concessions can be given for bill payment;
(4) Procedures for determining fines for non-payment of bills;
(5) Determining the circumstances in which service must be disconnected due to non-payment of bills, and establishing the necessary procedures to be followed in such circumstances.

(c) The Authority shall give service providers a period of at least 6 (six) months to begin implementing the regulation formulated under clause (a) of this Article.

(d) For services provided through meters among public utility services, the meter must be registered in the name of the owner of the building. If the service is used by a person other than the person to whom the meter is registered, the service may be registered in the name of the person using the service with the service provider. The Authority shall formulate a regulation stating all the procedures and rules for doing this.

(e) If any person registers for a public utility service under clause (d) of this Article, the person to whom the service is registered shall be responsible for the cost incurred for that service for the period the service is registered.

CHAPTER NINE
SERVICE QUALITY AND STANDARDS OF SERVICE PROVISION

Service Quality

35.
(a) The Authority shall ensure that public utility services are provided to service recipients in accordance with the principles laid down in the relevant specific law and the general principles laid down in this Act.

(b) The licensee shall deal with the service recipient in a reasonable manner and shall take reasonable steps to rectify matters related to complaints made by service recipients.

(c) The Authority shall direct the licensee, either as a condition of the license or as an order from the Authority, to establish a code of practice on how the licensee will deal with service recipients.

Performance Standards

36.
(a) The Authority shall create standards for the following matters and, after giving a reasonable period, shall direct licensees to act in accordance with those standards.

(1) The period between the receipt of a request for a specified public utility service from a service recipient and the provision of that service;
(2) The time taken to resolve an issue from the time it is reported by a service recipient, who states that there are difficulties in receiving a specified public utility service or that there is any other issue; and
(3) The technical and operational capability and financial situation of the licensee.

(b) If a licensee violates a standard set under this chapter, the Authority shall determine the procedure for the licensee to provide compensation for the loss incurred by the service recipient, the amount for which the licensee is liable as compensation, and the procedure for determining these matters or the course of action to be taken.

Accounting Procedures

    The procedures for maintaining and reporting the financial statements of licensees shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act, and the Authority shall direct licensees to act in accordance with that regulation.

CHAPTER TEN
CONFIDENTIALITY

Responsibility of Confidentiality

    Parties active in the field of providing public utility services, including the Authority and licensed parties, their officers, employees, agents, and persons working for them on a contract basis, shall not disclose any information or document related to the following, obtained in connection with their employment within the service provision sector:

(a) Any document relating to any ongoing or past transaction or any other information concerning such a transaction;
(b) A person to whom the service provider provides or plans to provide public utility services; or
(c) A person's personal information or communication.

Exceptions

    This Act does not prevent the disclosure of information in the following circumstances. And disclosure of information in any of these circumstances shall not be considered a violation of Article 38 of this Act.

(a) Information that is publicly available;
(b) Information disclosed by an employee involved in the enforcement of this Act to another such employee for the purpose of performing their job;
(c) The information or document is provided by the Authority or the service provider or an officer, employee, agent, or contractor of the public utility service provision sector, and the information provided is information provided in the performance of their job duties;
(d) Disclosure of information obtained about a service recipient by a licensed party in the course of providing the service, for the purpose of the license issued to that party;
(e) Disclosure of information to an agency with the power to conduct a criminal investigation, under a court order or as prescribed by law, to prevent a criminal offense or for the investigation of such an offense;
(f) Disclosure of information to security services under a court order or as prescribed by law, in a situation that endangers national security;
(g) The information or document is provided under a specific law, in order to comply with that law;
(h) Permissible information disclosed in a civil or criminal trial;
(i) Information that must be provided to the Authority as specified in this Act or a regulation made under this Act or in the conditions of a license;
(j) If the information or document provided contains information of another person or group, permission has been obtained to provide and use such information or document to another party;
(k) Information disclosed to the state statistics office for inclusion in statistics;
(l) Information that must be disclosed under an agreement signed between the Maldivian government and a foreign government, or under an international treaty that the Maldives is obliged to comply with;
(m) Information disclosed to the ministry entrusted at the time with the responsibility of formulating policies on public utility services and overseeing matters related to public utility services.

CHAPTER ELEVEN
COMPLAINT REVIEW

Matters that can be Reviewed under this Chapter

    Any interested party may submit to the Authority matters related to the provision of public utility services concerning the following:

(a) A matter that violates this Act or a specific law concerning a public utility service;
(b) A matter that violates a standard established by the Authority under this Act;
(c) A matter that violates the agreement made between the service provider and the service recipient;
(d) The issue of connecting or not being able to connect a service for a service recipient;
(e) A matter of damage caused by the negligence of the service provider; and
(f) A matter related to damage to the equipment and places used for providing the service.

Submitting a Complaint

41.
(a) The manner of submitting complaints regarding the matters specified in Article 40 of this Act, and the procedures to be followed by the Authority in responding to those complaints, shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

(b) The Authority shall make the necessary arrangements for any person to easily submit a complaint they wish to make.

(c) If, in relation to a complaint submitted by any person, the Authority does not see a reasonable cause to investigate that complaint, the Authority shall, within 7 (seven) days of making the decision, inform the person who submitted the complaint of the Authority's decision and the reasons for it.

Authority Initiating Investigation

    The Authority may, on its own initiative, investigate the following matters in the following circumstances:

(a) A matter where the Authority believes that any person has violated this Act or a specific law concerning public utility services;
(b) A matter where the Authority believes that any person has acted contrary to an order issued by the Authority to act in accordance with this Act and a specific law concerning public utility services; and
(c) A matter investigated because the Authority believes, based on a reasonable cause, that an issue needs to be investigated in any other circumstance.

Report on the Conclusion of the Matter

43.
(a) After investigating a matter under Article 41(a) and Article 42 of this Act, the Authority shall prepare a report.

(b) The report prepared under clause (a) of this Article shall include the following:

(1) How the matter was investigated;
(2) The findings obtained by the Authority as a result of the investigation;
(3) The evidence on which the information and findings in sub-clause (2) of this clause are based;
(4) The Authority's views or proposals on the investigated matter or related matters, and the Authority's decision.

Disclosure of Information

44.
(a) The report prepared by the Authority after investigating a matter, as per Article 43 of this Act, shall be made public.

(b) In the following circumstances, a report of the Authority or a part of it, as mentioned in clause (a) of this Article, shall not be published or disclosed:

(1) In a situation where publishing or disclosing the report or a part of it would reveal a secret of a person or a company; or
(2) In a situation that could obstruct an ongoing investigation related to a criminal matter; or
(3) In a situation that could prejudice the fairness of a trial being conducted against a person; or
(4) In a situation that could endanger national security.

(c) When publishing a report or a part of a report on behalf of the Authority, such information shall not be published if it discloses the personal or private information of any person to an unreasonable extent.

(d) Information on matters submitted to the Authority and matters investigated by the Authority, and related statistics, shall be updated and made public.

(e) The services provided by the Authority, the procedures it follows, the orders it issues, and the reports it prepares shall be published in a way that is easily accessible to the public.

Stating Reasons and Review

45.
(a) If a person believes that their right has been infringed upon by a decision made by the Authority under the power granted to it by this Act, the procedures for stating the reasons for making such a decision, for submitting a request to review that decision, and for acting on that submission shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

(b) For the purpose of reviewing matters submitted under clause (a) of this Article, a review committee shall be established within the Authority. A member of the committee that investigated the matter shall not be included in the review committee thus formed.

Submitting Matters to Court

46.
(a) As per Article 45 of this Act, after the Authority's review committee makes a decision, if the party that submitted the matter does not accept the reasons stated in the document given to them, that party has the right to submit the matter to court within 30 (thirty) days of receiving that document.

(b) The right to submit a matter to court under clause (a) of this Article is granted to any party only after completing the procedures specified in the regulation made under Article 45 of this Act.

CHAPTER TWELVE
INSPECTION OF PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE LOCATIONS AND FACILITIES BY THE AUTHORITY

Inspection of Public Utility Service Locations and Facilities

47.
(a) In order to check whether the licensee is acting in accordance with the license conditions, after giving at least 15 (fifteen) days' written notice stating the details of the places to be inspected, the reason for the inspection, and an instruction to have a person representing the licensee present at the place of inspection, the Authority may enter the licensee's buildings and premises to inspect their offices, equipment used for service provision, and facilities.

(b) Notwithstanding clause (a) of this Article, this Article does not prevent entry into the licensee's offices, equipment used for service provision, and facilities without notice in an emergency or to investigate a criminal matter.

(c) If the licensee has equipment deemed necessary to carry out tests required to inspect the locations where the licensee's service-providing equipment and facilities are installed or to check if those facilities are in good order, the licensee shall provide those items for the Authority's use in accordance with the technical standards set by the Authority. If an additional cost is incurred in using the items for the Authority's purpose, the Authority shall be responsible for that cost.

(d) For the purpose of clause (a) of this Article, the licensee shall provide employees. And it shall be mandatory to act in accordance with the orders issued by the Authority under this Article.

(e) The licensee or the applicant for a license shall make arrangements for the Authority to visit and conduct inspections of the public utility service locations and facilities. If a cost is incurred in this, the Authority shall cover that cost.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN
TAKING ACTION

Taking Administrative Action

48.
(a) If a regulation made under this Act, or a condition stipulated when a license is issued, or an order issued under this Act, or any article in this Act is violated, and if no specific action is prescribed for that matter in another law or in another article of this Act, the Authority has the discretion to fine the party that committed the act by an amount not exceeding the amounts specified below.

(1) For the first offense, a fine of between 1,000/- (one thousand) Rufiyaa and 50,000/- (fifty thousand) Rufiyaa;
(2) For a repeated offense of the same matter, a fine of between 50,000/- (fifty thousand) Rufiyaa and 200,000/- (two hundred thousand) Rufiyaa;
(3) For each time an offense of the same matter is repeated more than twice, a fine of between 200,000/- (two hundred thousand) Rufiyaa and 1,000,000/- (one million) Rufiyaa; and
(4) In addition to the fines in sub-clauses (1), (2), and (3) of this clause, the Authority has the discretion to impose a fine not exceeding 1,000/- (one thousand) Rufiyaa for each day the violation continues.

(b) The Authority shall not impose a fine unless the following conditions are met.

(1) Considering the nature and circumstances of the matter, the fine imposed must be proportionate to the matter or the circumstance that led to the fine or the ongoing circumstance that led to the fine; and
(2) The Authority must be satisfied that the party on whom a fine is imposed for violating this Act has been given a reasonable opportunity to rectify the reason for which the fine was imposed, and that the party or the licensee has been given a reasonable opportunity to rectify the reason for the fine or the act that led to the fine, or to act in accordance with the violated license conditions, or if a clause or part of this Act has been violated, to rectify such a violation; and
(3) The party on whom a fine is imposed for violating this Act has been given a reasonable opportunity to present anything they wish to present in their defense, and the Authority has made a decision regarding the fine after considering their submissions.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN
AUTHORITY'S POWER TO OBTAIN INFORMATION

Discretion to Obtain Information and Documents

49.
(a) The discretion vested in the Authority as specified in this Article may be exercised over the following parties, including licensees.

(1) A party that has or is believed to have any information or any document necessary for the Authority to exercise a power or perform a responsibility granted under this Act;
(2) A party who could provide evidence that the Authority believes is necessary for exercising a power or performing a responsibility granted to the Authority in accordance with this Act.

(b) Unless explicitly prohibited by a specific law, the Authority may direct any party to communicate in writing in the following matters.

(1) To provide all necessary information to the Authority as specified in the document, within the period stated in the document sent by the Authority;
(2) To send all necessary documents to the party as specified in the document, within the period stated in the document sent by the Authority;
(3) To prepare copies of all necessary documents that are true to the original, as specified in the document, within the period stated in the document sent by the Authority;
(4) If the Authority sends the document to a private individual, for that person to respond or give testimony orally or in writing, at the time specified in the document sent by the Authority;
(5) If the party to whom the Authority sends the document is a non-natural legal person, for the head of that entity to respond or give testimony orally or in writing, as specified in the document sent by the Authority.

Acting as Directed by the Authority

50.
(a) All parties shall act in accordance with clause (b) of Article 49 of this Act.

(b) If any party, without a valid reason, fails to act as determined by the Authority in accordance with clause (b) of Article 49 of this Act, the Authority has the discretion to fine that party an amount not exceeding 2,000 (two thousand) Rufiyaa.

Keeping Documents and Copies Under the Authority's Custody

51.
(a) A document submitted to the Authority for its use under this chapter may be kept under the Authority's custody until the Authority's use for it is complete.

(b) After reviewing a document or its copy sent or required to be submitted to the Authority under this chapter, if the Authority wishes to make and keep a copy of such a document or its copy, or if it wishes to extract a specific part from such a document, it may do so.

(c) A record of all information or evidence obtained by the Authority or documents obtained by the Authority under clause (b) of Article 49 of this Act shall be maintained.

Non-use of Information for Prosecuting Criminal Offenses

    Information provided by any party to the Authority or information obtained as a result of that party providing information is not evidence that can be used to bring a criminal charge against the party that provided or submitted such information.

CHAPTER FIFTEEN
FINANCIAL MATTERS AND REPORTING

Financial Matters

53.
(a) The funds required for the Authority to perform its responsibilities shall be disbursed to the Authority annually from the state treasury under a budget approved by the People's Majlis. Accordingly, the Board of the Authority shall, on the advice of the Ministry, prepare the Authority's budget, have it approved by the Board of the Authority, and send it to the Ministry of Finance for inclusion in the state budget, in accordance with Law No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act) and the regulations made thereunder.

(b) All accounts and all documents of the Authority shall be maintained in accordance with Law No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act).

Auditing

    The accounts of the Authority shall be audited once every year as determined by the Auditor General.

Annual Report

55.
(a) A report on the operations of the Authority for the past year, together with the audited accounts of the Authority, shall be prepared by the Authority within 4 (four) months of the end of each financial year, submitted to the Board of Directors, and after its approval by the Board, submitted to the Minister. The report shall be made public within 1 (one) month of its receipt by the Minister, and a copy of the report shall be sent to the People's Majlis.

(b) The report mentioned in clause (a) of this Article shall include any matters reviewed by the Board of Directors in which any member of the Board of Directors had a personal interest, benefit, or role, and the manner in which those matters were dealt with.

(c) In addition to the matters required to be included in the report as stated in clauses (a) and (b) of this Article, the report shall monitor and reflect on important issues identified in monitoring and evaluating the work of the licensees under this Act, and especially monitor and address the following matters in the report.

(1) The level of satisfaction of the service recipient;
(2) The benefits received by the service recipient;
(3) The quality of service provided by the service providers;
(4) The manner in which service providers and other parties are implementing and enforcing this Act;
(5) The standard at which licensed parties are providing facilities and services;
(6) The level of satisfaction of service recipients with the services, and the rate of complaints about those services;
(7) The fees and/or prices paid by service recipients for receiving services;
(8) The availability and quality of public utility services in all regions of the Maldives;
(9) The level of competition created in public utility services, and the robustness of the measures taken to sustain that competition;
(10) The difficulties and obstacles encountered in the implementation of this Act; and
(11) Other matters that the Authority deems relevant to the above.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN
MISCELLANEOUS

Transfer of Certain Places and Facilities upon the Establishment of the Authority

    The following places and facilities, which were in operation before the commencement of this Act, were transferred to the Utility Regulatory Authority upon its establishment as per clause (a) of Article 3 of this Act.

(a) The Maldives Energy Authority and all property and facilities used in that Authority, the funds allocated to that Authority from the government budget and approved by the People's Majlis, all duties and responsibilities to be borne by that Authority by law and under agreements, and the rights and benefits granted to that Authority by law and under agreements;

(b) The responsibilities of enforcing matters related to the regulation of water, sewerage, and waste management of the Environmental Protection Agency, which was in operation before the commencement of this Act, all work of the sections entrusted with these responsibilities and all facilities used in that work, all duties and responsibilities to be borne by that agency by law and under agreements regarding the services of water, sewerage, and waste management, and the rights and benefits granted to that agency by law and under such agreements.

Transfer of Employees

    All employees working at the Maldives Energy Authority before the commencement of this Act, and the employees entrusted with the responsibility of enforcing matters related to the regulation of water, sewerage, and waste management of the Environmental Protection Agency, became employees of the Authority established under clause (a) of Article 3 of this Act upon the establishment of that Authority.

Public Utility Service Providers at the Commencement of the Act

58.
(a) Public utility services established and operating with proper authorization at the time of the commencement of this Act shall be considered as services established and operating in accordance with this Act.

(b) A license issued by a relevant government ministry or agency in relation to public utility services before the commencement of this Act shall be considered as a license issued in accordance with this Act and shall be enforceable under this Act as long as it does not conflict with this Act.

(c) As stated in clause (b) of this Article, the Authority shall, within a maximum of 2 (two) years from the commencement of this Act, ascertain that a license issued before the commencement of this Act does not conflict with this Act. If a license issued before the commencement of this Act conflicts with this Act, the Authority shall inform the party of this, stating the fact, and direct them to renew the license within a reasonable period.

Making and Enforcing Regulations

59.
(a) All regulations required to be made under this Act shall be made and enforced by the Authority.

(b) The regulations required to be made under this Act shall be made and published for the public within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act.

Commencement of the Act

    This Act shall come into force from the date of its passage, ratification, and publication in the Government Gazette.

Definitions

    Unless the context in which an expression or word is used in this Act clearly indicates otherwise, the following expressions and words shall have the meanings given below.

(a) "Authority" refers to the "Utility Regulatory Authority" established under Article 3 of this Act.

(b) "Minister" refers to the minister of the ministry to whom the President has assigned the responsibility of overseeing the affairs of the Utility Regulatory Authority mentioned in this Act.

(c) "Public utility services" refers to the services of water, sewerage, electricity, and waste management provided for a fee or on a commercial basis.

(d) "Service provider" refers to a party that provides a public utility service mentioned in this Act.

(e) "Licensed party" refers to a provider of public utility services that has obtained a license required by this Act to provide such services.

(f) "Specific laws related to public utility services" or "relevant specific laws" refers to the laws made for the operation and management of water, sewerage, electricity, and waste management in the Maldives.

(g) "License" refers to permanent and temporary licenses and permanent and temporary permits issued under this Act to provide public utility services.

(h) "Board of Directors" or "Board" refers to the Board of Directors of the Authority mentioned in Article 6 of this Act.
