Waste Management Act

Chapter One
Introduction

1. Introduction and Name

(a) This is the Act to establish a sustainable framework for waste management in the Maldives, to eliminate or reduce the negative impacts of waste, to protect the environment and public health, and to determine the principles, standards, and procedures for waste management.

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Waste Management Act".

2. Objectives

The main objectives of this Act are stated below.

(a) To encourage the reduction of environmental pollution and damage caused by waste, and to reduce risks to public health;

(b) To encourage the prevention of waste generation, to reduce the amount generated, to reuse, to recycle, and to encourage the recovery of useful materials from waste;

(c) To facilitate the establishment of a waste management system in every inhabited island, appropriate for that island and designed to minimize harm to the environment and public health, and to provide this service to the public in a sustainable and robust manner;

(d) To facilitate the establishment and operation of waste management systems in islands and places leased for tourism, islands and places leased for industrial work, and other islands and places used for various purposes other than human habitation, where waste is generated, in a manner appropriate for that place and designed to minimize harm to the environment and public health;

(e) To facilitate the establishment of regional waste management systems to manage waste that cannot be sustainably managed at the island level, and to operate these systems in a robust manner;

(f) To define the responsibilities and powers of service providers, and the rights and responsibilities of service recipients, in the provision of waste management as a public utility service;

(g) To establish a system for taking action against those who intentionally damage the waste management system or cause damage through negligence in its operation and maintenance;

(h) To increase the participation of private parties in waste management services;

(i) To reduce the harm to the environment and public health in the operation of the waste management system;

(j) To increase public participation in the provision of waste management services;

(k) To hold the waste generator responsible at all stages of waste management;

(l) To establish methods or principles for implementing the obligations required by international treaties on waste generation and management to which the Maldives is a party; and

(m) To establish a system for setting and collecting fees for the sustainable and adequate provision of waste management services.

3. Scope of the Act

This Act shall apply to the following matters.

(a) The generation and management of all types of waste;

(b) Waste stored for the purpose of recovering useful materials, recycling, or disposal, and waste in the process of recovery of useful materials, recycling, or disposal;

(c) The transport of any type of waste in any form from one place to another;

(d) The import, export, and re-export of waste; and

(e) The use of waste as a resource.

Chapter Two
Principles of Waste Management

4. Waste Management Hierarchy and Levels

(a) When deciding on a method for waste management, waste management entities shall give priority to the following hierarchy.

(1) Prevention;
(2) Reduction;
(3) Reuse;
(4) Repair;
(5) Recycling;
(6) Production and recovery of useful materials;
(7) Incineration of waste; and
(8) Disposal of waste.

(b) In implementing this Act, the Ministry, Agencies, Authorities, and Local Councils shall promote the organization and advancement of waste management activities by prioritizing waste prevention within the hierarchy graded in this Article.

Chapter Three
Role of Institutions

5. Enforcement Principles

Every party acting under the authority of this Act shall, in enforcing the matters stated in this Act, uphold the following principles.

(a) That the responsibility of waste management is a shared responsibility among the authorities entrusted with the administration of the state at various levels, various industries, businesses, and the entire society and individuals;

(b) That in a situation where the environment is faced with a threat and there is a fear of irreversible damage, the lack of full scientific certainty shall not be a reason to postpone taking measures to protect the environment from potential harm;

(c) In providing waste management services:

(1) Non-discrimination;
(2) Providing services in a sustainable manner;
(3) Providing services at an adequate standard based on robust principles;
(4) Adopting a transparent policy;
(5) Setting the price of the service in a manner that conforms to economic standards;
(6) Arranging for easy access to the service; and
(7) Having public participation and consultation.

(d) That any party committing an act that harms the environment or could pollute the environment must fully bear the financial responsibility for minimizing and remediating the harm caused to the environment and society by that act;

(e) To prioritize managing waste at the place where it was generated;

(f) Recognizing that producers and users of goods and services must contribute to the state's efforts to reduce the environmental impact of the goods they produce or use, and that they must bear responsibilities between the production of such goods and their safe disposal.

6. Responsibility for Policy Formulation

(a) Waste shall be managed in accordance with policies set by the government.

(b) The Minister shall determine the policies for waste management in the Maldives.

(c) Policies determined by the Minister under subsection (b) of this Article shall be published in the Government Gazette and made public on the Ministry's website. If any changes are made to these policies, those changes shall be regularly gazetted and made public on the Ministry's website.

(d) Any party planning or conducting any work related to waste management shall fully comply with the policies established under subsection (a) of this Article.

7. Enforcement of the Act

This Act shall be enforced by the Authorities, Agencies, Councils, and other parties entrusted with the responsibility of waste management, in accordance with the policies determined by the Minister as per Article 6 of this Act.

8. Responsibilities of the Ministry

In order to enforce this Act, the Ministry shall do the following.

(a) Establish and implement a national policy on sustainable waste management in the Maldives;

(b) Seek consultation from relevant ministries, local councils, relevant state institutions, civil societies, and the general public in determining waste management policy;

(c) Encourage and assist in the planning and operation of recycling and material recovery systems at the island and regional levels;

(d) Facilitate and encourage the development of industries and businesses in the Maldives based on recycling, recovery of useful materials from waste, and reuse of waste;

(e) Plan and conduct public awareness programs on waste management at the national level;

(f) Arrange for financial, technical, and technological assistance for the work done by councils to establish a suitable waste management system in every inhabited island of the Maldives;

(g) Arrange for the establishment and operation of regional waste management centers in the Maldives;

(h) Establish a suitable waste management policy for islands and areas leased for tourism and for islands and areas leased for industrial activities;

(i) Increase the capacity of work done at the island, regional, and national levels regarding waste management services, and provide financial and technical assistance, advice, and guidance;

(j) Determine the national targets to be achieved in waste management, and carry out the necessary work at various levels to obtain the financial and technical resources needed to achieve those targets;

(k) Formulate and review the National Master Plan to be created in relation to waste management policies;

(l) Provide advice and guidance to state institutions on matters related to waste management;

(m) Collect and maintain all statistics related to the waste management system of the Maldives, provide them to relevant state authorities, and make this information public on the Ministry's website;

(n) Monitor the progress of waste management projects run by various parties in the Maldives to develop and strengthen the waste management sector;

(o) Establish a favorable environment for the participation of private parties in developing and providing waste management services;

(p) Determine regions for establishing waste management centers and centers for safe waste disposal, design and establish waste management systems, and set regulations and standards for providing services from these systems;

(q) Establish regulations and standards for testing and certifying the resources used to establish the waste management system;

(r) Formulate and publicize the environmental standards to be considered for determining the areas where waste management centers will be established; and

(s) Make all necessary regulations and standards for the enforcement of this Act.

9. Responsibilities and Powers of the Agency

Under this Act, the Agency has the following responsibilities and powers.

(a) To identify the impacts of waste on public health and the environment, and to provide advice and consultation to relevant parties on this matter;

(b) To conduct necessary studies and analyses for the development of waste management activities;

(c) To take measures to stop the potential or actual impacts on the environment and public health in relation to incidents caused by waste, to prevent environmental damage from such incidents, to prevent environmental pollution, and to restore the impacts on the environment.

10. Responsibilities and Powers of the Authority

Under this Act, the Authority has the following responsibilities and powers.

(a) To carry out all necessary actions, either directly by the Authority or through another party appointed by the Authority to investigate a specific matter, to ensure that the parties responsible for waste management are fulfilling their responsibilities in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under it;

(b) To issue, renew, amend, and revoke permits and licenses for waste management service providers;

(c) To enforce the regulations, principles, and standards that must be followed in operating waste management services, and to take necessary measures against those who violate them;

(d) To enforce the regulations and standards made under this Act regarding the designation of areas for the establishment of waste management centers and safe disposal facilities, and the design, establishment, and service provision of waste management systems;

(e) To ensure that waste management services are provided as a public utility service in accordance with this Act and other laws related to public services, and to monitor and ensure compliance with the standards required for providing such services;

(f) To carry out all necessary actions, either directly by the Authority or through another party appointed by the Authority to perform a specific task, to ensure that waste management services are being conducted in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under it;

(g) To determine, review, and amend the maximum price for waste management services in accordance with specific laws and regulations related to public utility services;

(h) To inspect places and facilities used for providing waste management services when necessary, and to take the required measures;

(i) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act or any other law, to ensure that a sustainable and appropriate waste management system is maintained in islands and areas leased for tourism and in islands and areas leased for industrial activities; and

(j) To carry out all matters stated in this Act as required to be done by the Authority in relation to waste management.

11. Responsibilities and Powers of the Councils

Under this Act, the Councils have the following responsibilities and powers.

(a) To implement all matters designated as the responsibilities of the councils in this Act and the regulations made hereunder, at the island and city level;

(b) To plan waste management services, formulate projects, and implement projects at the island level;

(c) To make arrangements for the equitable provision of waste management services at the island and city level;

(d) To acquire the necessary financial, technical, and other resources for providing waste management services;

(e) To designate land for waste management within that island or city;

(f) To determine the fee to be charged for waste management services in that island or city, in accordance with government policies, this Act, and the regulations set by the Authority;

(g) To make regulations and principles for providing waste management services at the island or city level;

(h) To monitor the provision of waste management services and take necessary measures at the island or city level to maintain the quality of service, in accordance with relevant regulations;

(i) To protect the rights of the service provider and the service recipient at the island or city level;

(j) To plan and conduct public awareness programs on waste management at the island or city level;

(k) To regularly provide information to relevant institutions for the purpose of formulating national policies and collecting various statistics related to waste management.

12. Management of Waste Generated in Islands and Areas Leased for Tourism and Industrial Work

(a) The management of waste in islands and areas leased for tourism and industrial work is the responsibility of the owner or managing party of that island or area.

(b) The Ministry shall formulate a regulation stating the procedures to be followed for waste management under subsection (a) of this Article, and publish it in the Government Gazette and make it public on the Ministry's website within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act.

13. Management of Waste Generated on Sea Vessels

(a) The management of waste generated on sea vessels is the responsibility of the owner of the vessel or the person in charge of the vessel.

(b) The Ministry shall formulate a regulation stating the procedures to be followed for waste management under subsection (a) of this Article, and publish it in the Government Gazette and make it public on the Ministry's website within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act.

14. Management of Waste Generated on Uninhabited Islands and Similar Places

(a) The management of waste on uninhabited islands and similar places is the responsibility of the party to whom such places have been entrusted for care under lease (varuvaa) or any other arrangement.

(b) For uninhabited islands and similar places that have not been entrusted to a specific party for care under lease or any other arrangement, visitors shall be responsible for the waste they generate in those places.

(c) The Ministry shall formulate a regulation stating the procedures to be followed for waste management under subsections (a) and (b) of this Article, and publish it in the Government Gazette and make it public on the Ministry's website within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act.

15. Management of Waste Generated on Aircraft

(a) The management of waste generated on aircraft is the responsibility of the owner of the aircraft or the party operating it.

(b) The Ministry shall formulate a regulation stating the procedures to be followed for waste management under subsection (a) of this Article, and publish it in the Government Gazette and make it public on the Ministry's website within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act.

16. International Agreements and Treaties

When the Maldivian government becomes a party to international agreements and treaties on waste management, the Ministry shall, with the advice and guidance of relevant sectors, do the following.

(a) Formulate the necessary legal framework to carry out all obligations imposed on the state by such agreements and treaties;

(b) Make all necessary arrangements for the implementation of such agreements and treaties in the Maldives; and

(c) Communicate and coordinate with international parties regarding the treaties.

Chapter Four
Waste Reduction

17. National Waste Reduction Strategy

(a) Based on projections relative to the amount of waste collected at waste management centers operating in the Maldives, the Minister shall, in collaboration with relevant institutions, establish and publicize a national waste reduction strategy every 5 (five) years.

(b) The first national waste reduction strategy under subsection (a) of this Article shall be established and publicized by the Minister within 12 (twelve) months from the date of commencement of this Act.

(c) For the purpose of subsection (a), the Ministry shall publicly announce and declare the method and deadline for submitting required information. It is the responsibility of the owner or operator of a waste management center to submit information and report as stated in that announcement.

18. Extended Producer Responsibility

(a) Parties that import goods into the Maldives and parties that produce goods in the Maldives shall be responsible for the waste generated from those goods.

(b) To achieve the objectives of this Act, the Ministry shall determine the extended producer responsibility to include the following matters, and formulate a regulation concerning these matters and publish it in the Government Gazette within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act.

(1) Goods or specific types of goods for which producer responsibility will extend;
(2) Extended producer responsibility for a specific item or a specific type of item;
(3) Producers who must bear the extended responsibility;
(4) Materials used for packaging goods imported into or produced in the Maldives; and
(5) A system for holding producers or importers responsible for the goods they produce or import into the Maldives.

(c) Before establishing a regulation or principle under subsection (a) of this Article, or before amending a previously published regulation or part of a regulation, or a principle or part of a principle, consultation shall be sought from the producers who may be affected by it.

19. Determining Incentives to Encourage Waste Reduction

(a) To achieve the objectives of this Act, the Ministry shall formulate an action plan specifying the incentives that can be given to promote activities that reduce waste generation and convert waste into a valuable resource, and shall act upon the matters stated in that plan.

(b) The action plan mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be formulated and made public within 1 (one) year from the commencement of this Act.

(c) To strengthen the implementation of concessions given under the export and import duty system for protecting and sustaining the environment, in a way that achieves the objectives of this Act, the Ministry shall establish and implement principles related to the following matters.

(1) To determine the types of goods for which import duty concessions will be given, in order to encourage the sale of environmentally friendly goods at a lower price than goods that pollute the environment and to reduce waste.

(2) To determine the types of goods for which import duty concessions will be given when importing them into the Maldives, in order to promote projects aimed at waste reduction, recovery of useful materials from waste, and energy generation from waste, and to encourage such activities.

(d) In implementing the matters determined under subsection (a) of this Article, the Ministry shall review the implemented action plan and policies once every year to see if the objective of this Act is being achieved.

Chapter Five
Planning of Waste Management

20. National Waste Management Master Plan

(a) Within 1 (one) year from the date of commencement of this Act, the Ministry shall formulate a National Waste Management Master Plan, publish it in the Government Gazette, and make it public on the Ministry's website. This plan must include the following.

(1) The national waste management policy;
(2) Strategies, targets, and actions to implement the national waste management policy;
(3) Methods for managing municipal waste, construction waste, hazardous waste, and special waste; and
(4) Methods for managing waste at the national and regional levels.

(b) The National Waste Management Master Plan shall be reviewed at least once every 5 (five) years after its formulation, and any amendments made shall be published in the Government Gazette and made public on the Ministry's website.

(c) The National Waste Management Master Plan shall be formulated and any amendments to such a plan shall be made with the consultation of councils, relevant authorities, and participants in the waste management industry.

21. Implementation of the National Waste Management Master Plan

The primary responsibility for implementing the National Waste Management Master Plan shall be borne by the Ministry. And the responsibilities assigned to an authority for the implementation of the plan in connection with the National Waste Management Master Plan shall be implemented by that authority. The Ministry must ensure that the National Waste Management Master Plan is implemented through the operational plans implemented for waste management at the island and regional levels.

22. Preparation and Approval of Island-level and City-level Waste Management Operational Plans

(a) Within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act, the Ministry shall formulate a guideline detailing the rules and principles for organizing and conducting waste management activities at the island and city levels, publish it in the Government Gazette, and make it public on the Ministry's website.

(b) Within 6 (six) months of formulating the guideline mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article, each council shall formulate, approve, and implement an operational plan, in accordance with that guideline, detailing how waste management activities will be conducted at the island or city level.

(c) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of this Article, this Article does not prevent the joint implementation of operational plans for managing the waste of two or more islands or a city within the same administrative division under an agreement made between those parties for such designated areas.

(d) The operational plan formulated under subsection (b) of this Article shall be reviewed at least once every 5 (five) years from the date of its approval. And changes made to the operational plan in connection with such a review shall be made public.

(e) A party required to prepare a waste management operational plan under this Article shall prepare such a plan or amend such a plan with the consultation of the residents living within the jurisdiction of such a plan and the participants of the waste management industry active in that area.

23. Regional-Level Waste Management

(a) A party providing waste management services at the regional level shall provide the service in accordance with the regulations made under this Act and in accordance with the waste management operational plan prepared by the service provider.

(b) The regulation mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall establish the rules and principles for organizing and conducting waste management activities at the regional level. It shall also specify the matters that must be included in the regional waste management operational plan.

(c) The regional waste management operational plan formulated under subsection (a) of this Article shall come into effect after such a plan is approved and written permission is given by the Authority.

24. Industrial Waste Management Plan

(a) An operational plan detailing how waste management activities will be conducted in resorts, tourist hotels, and other places where industrial work is carried out, shall be formulated by the owner or the managing party of that place, in accordance with the regulation made under this Act.

(b) The implementation of the operational plan mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article is the responsibility of the owner or the managing party of that place.

(c) The industrial waste management operational plan prepared under subsection (a) of this Article must be a plan formulated in accordance with the National Waste Management Master Plan and the island, city, or regional waste management operational plan.

Chapter Six
Provision of Waste Management Services

25. Provision of Waste Management Services

(a) No party shall provide waste management services in the Maldives except after obtaining an operating license issued for that purpose by the Authority and registering with the Authority, in accordance with the licensing procedures specified in the regulation made under this Act. And conducting such an activity without a license is an offense.

(b) The regulation mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be formulated by the Ministry, published in the Government Gazette, and made public on the Ministry's website within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act.

26. Responsibilities of Waste Management Service Providers

(a) Waste management service providers shall provide continuous service to all parties within their service area, in accordance with this Act, the regulations made hereunder, the waste management operational plan for the service area, and the conditions of the operating license issued for providing waste management services.

(b) If the recipients of waste management services pay their fees regularly, arrangements must be made for them to receive the service without any discrimination.

(c) All reports and information required to be submitted to the Authority regarding waste management services, as specified in the regulations made under this Act, must be submitted.

(d) Assistance and cooperation shall be provided for all activities carried out by the Ministry, the Authority, the Agency, and the Council in fulfilling their responsibilities under this Act.

(e) A robust system shall be formulated and maintained to minimize service interruptions during natural and other disasters and emergency situations, to ensure safety and security, and to act in such situations.

27. Certain Powers Vested in Waste Management Service Providers

(a) The service provider has the power to purchase, rent, produce, own, and keep under its own custody the facilities, buildings, machinery, and other related items necessary for providing the service.

(b) For work related to service provision, entry may be made into government and state buildings, and private residential and commercial properties. When making such an entry, the employee of the service provider must have an identification that proves their status.

(c) A party providing waste management services as a public utility may collect fees by either collecting the fee itself or by including it in the bill of another service provided as a public utility.

(d) If fees are collected by including them in the bill of another service provided as a public utility as per subsection (c) of this Article, it shall be done under an agreement with that service provider. If an additional cost is incurred for collecting the service fee by including it in another bill, that cost shall be borne by the service provider.

28. Levying Fees for Service

Fees for the different categories of waste management services provided as a public utility shall be levied in accordance with the principles stated in this Act and Act No. 26/2020 (Utility Regulatory Authority Act).

29. Monitoring

The work of waste management service providers shall be inspected and monitored by the Authority, or by another party appointed by it, at intervals specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Chapter Seven
Production and Release to Market of Single-Use Plastics

30. Production, Import, and Release to Market of Types of Single-Use Plastics in the Maldives

(a) Among things that harm the environment, it is an offense to produce, import into the Maldives, or release to the market the types of single-use plastics determined by the President of the Republic.

(b) And it is an offense to produce, import into the Maldives, or release to the market the types of single-use plastics determined by a resolution of the President of the Republic before the commencement of this Act.

(c) The President of the Republic has the discretion to determine the list of types of single-use plastics under subsection (a) of this Article by dividing it into different phases.

(d) When the list of types of single-use plastics determined by the President of the Republic under subsection (a) of this Article is published in the Government Gazette, a date on which the production and release to market in the Maldives of the types of single-use plastics mentioned in that list will be prohibited must be specified.

(e) In determining the list of types of single-use plastics under subsection (a) of this Article, the following matters shall be considered.

(1) The amount of such items produced and unused in the Maldives so far, and the rate at which such items are being used in the Maldives;
(2) The amount of such items imported into the Maldives and unused so far, and the rate at which such items are being used in the Maldives; and
(3) The availability of alternative items that can be used instead, upon prohibiting the production or release to market of such items in the Maldives.

31. Reducing the Production and Market Presence of Single-Use Plastics in the Maldives

A regulation regarding the reduction of single-use plastic types used in the Maldives, other than the types of single-use plastics determined by the President of the Republic from among the things that harm the environment, shall be formulated by the Ministry, published in the Government Gazette, and made public on the Ministry's website within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act.

Chapter Eight
Fee on Plastic Bags

32. Fee on Plastic Bags

(a) For every plastic bag sold or provided to a customer at the point of sale by a business activity, that business activity shall charge the customer 2 (two) Rufiyaa as a plastic bag fee.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, the collection of the plastic bag fee under this Act is exempted for the plastic bags stated below.

(1) Plastic bags sold or provided by duty-free shops;
(2) Plastic bags used for packing all types of fresh, unpackaged fish;
(3) "Bin liners" specifically sold or issued for disposing of waste by waste management service providers or other relevant authorities.

33. Obligation to Charge a Fee on Plastic Bags

Charging a fee on plastic bags sold or provided to customers at the point of sale by business activities in the Maldives, as stated in Article 32 of this Act, shall become mandatory from the day 4 (four) months have passed since the date of commencement of this Act.

34. Including the Plastic Bag Fee in the Invoice or Receipt

(a) The invoice or receipt issued to a customer at the point of sale by a business activity must separately show the amount of the plastic bag fee collected from that customer.

(b) "Goods and Services Tax" under Act No. 10/2011 (Goods and Services Tax Act) shall not be levied on the plastic bag fee.

35. Paying the Fee Collected on Plastic Bags to MIRA

(a) Parties registered for GST with MIRA are obligated to pay the fee collected on plastic bags under this Act to MIRA.

(b) MIRA shall formulate a regulation to establish the procedures to be followed by parties registered for GST with MIRA in collecting the plastic bag fee under this Act and to enforce this chapter upon them, within a maximum of 3 (three) months from the date of commencement of this Act.

(c) Parties registered for GST with MIRA shall pay the fee collected on plastic bags to MIRA by the deadline set for them to pay tax to MIRA in Act No. 10/2011 (Goods and Services Tax Act). The money paid as the plastic bag fee in this manner must be separable from the GST.

(d) The money paid as a plastic bag fee by parties registered for GST with MIRA shall be deposited into the "Maldives Green Fund" established under Act No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act).

36. Plastic Bag Fee Period

For parties registered for GST with MIRA, the period for which the plastic bag fee is charged is the tax period for that party under Act No. 10/2011 (Goods and Services Tax Act).

37. Information to be Submitted

(a) Parties registered for GST with MIRA, after calculating the amount payable to MIRA as a plastic bag fee for the fee period in accordance with this Act and the regulations made hereunder, shall submit that information to MIRA by including it in the GST return for that period.

(b) The deadline for submitting the information mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article is the deadline for submitting the GST return that party is required to submit under Act No. 10/2011 (Goods and Services Tax Act).

38. Record Keeping

(a) MIRA shall formulate a regulation for the purpose of ensuring the accuracy of the amount of money collected as a plastic bag fee and for record-keeping, and publish it in the Government Gazette and make it public on MIRA's website within a maximum of 4 (four) months from the commencement of this Act.

(b) Unless otherwise stated in another law, records that must be kept under this chapter shall be maintained for a period of 5 (five) years.

39. Acting in Accordance with the Tax Administration Act

This chapter shall be read together with Act No. 3/2010 (Tax Administration Act) and Act No. 10/2011 (Goods and Services Tax Act). And unless a different meaning is explicitly stated in this chapter, every word or phrase used herein shall be interpreted as it is interpreted in those laws.

Chapter Nine
Establishment of Waste Management Centers, Handling, Transportation, and Collection of Waste

40. General Responsibility of Waste Handlers

(a) No person shall engage in any activity of handling, transporting, or disposing of waste in a manner that pollutes or may pollute the environment.

(b) A waste management entity must ensure that hazardous waste and special waste kept for transportation, processing, and storage are sealed and labeled in accordance with the regulation formulated by the Ministry.

(c) If any incident occurs during waste management, a waste management entity shall consider it as an environmental pollution or potential environmental pollution and shall immediately inform the following entities.

(1) If such an incident occurred in a place within the jurisdiction of a particular council, that council;
(2) If such an incident occurred in an area not under the jurisdiction of a particular island or city council, the atoll council to which that area belongs;
(3) If the incident involves an activity of managing hazardous waste and special waste, in addition to the councils, the Agency.

(d) No person shall conduct any waste collection activity on a commercial basis, except as specified in a waste management license or a waste collection permit issued by the Authority.

(e) To facilitate the provision of waste collection services under a single principle, and to ensure that it is conducted in that manner, the Ministry shall formulate a regulation including the following matters, publish it in the Government Gazette, and make it public on the Ministry's website within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act.

(1) The responsibilities and obligations of the waste generator to segregate waste;
(2) The responsibilities and obligations of the waste generator to dispose of waste in designated places and containers;
(3) The rights, responsibilities, and obligations of parties permitted to collect waste and parties licensed for waste management.

(f) Within the jurisdiction of a council, the council has the authority to order the taking of safety measures that it deems necessary in relation to the waste collection activities conducted by a party issued with a waste collection permit or a waste management license, and to give other instructions regarding such matters.

(k) A party issued with a waste collection permit or a party that has obtained a waste management license must comply with this Act, and also adhere to the orders given under subsection (f) of this Article and act in accordance with the instructions given.

41. Establishment of Waste Management Centers

(a) No party shall establish a waste management center except in accordance with the standards set by the Ministry.

(b) A place for landfilling as a means of waste management shall be established in accordance with the standards set by the Ministry.

42. Operating a Waste Management Center

(a) No party shall operate a waste management center in violation of the standards stated in this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

(b) The regulation mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be formulated by the Ministry, published in the Government Gazette, and made public on the Ministry's website within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act.

43. Transporting Waste from One Place to Another

(a) No person shall engage in the activity of transporting waste from one place to another within the Maldives, except as specified in a waste management license or a waste collection permit issued by the Authority.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Article, bringing or taking waste generated on an uninhabited island, sandbank, lagoon, reef, or similar place where waste management arrangements are not in place, or during a trip to such a place, to an area where waste management arrangements are established is not a violation of this Article.

(c) It is an offense to dump waste generated in resorts, tourist hotels, and other places where industrial work is carried out, into a waste management center of any inhabited island of the Maldives.

(d) A regulation on the procedures to be followed when transporting waste from one place to another shall be formulated by the Ministry, published in the Government Gazette, and made public on the Ministry's website within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act.

44. Importing Waste into the Maldives

(a) No person shall import any type of waste into the Maldives except with a permit issued by the Ministry.

(b) Upon application for a waste import permit under subsection (a) of this Article, such a permit shall be issued in accordance with the regulations made and publicly published by the Ministry.

45. Exporting Hazardous Waste from the Maldives

(a) No person shall export hazardous waste from the Maldives except with a permit issued by the Ministry.

(b) Upon application for a hazardous waste export permit under subsection (a) of this Article, such a permit shall be issued in accordance with the regulations made and publicly published by the Ministry.

(c) For the purpose of subsection (a) of this Article, the Ministry shall publicly announce and declare information related to the following matters.

(1) The types of hazardous waste permitted for export from the Maldives under a permit; and
(2) Countries to which the export of hazardous waste from the Maldives is completely prohibited.

46. Transporting Waste Across the Territory of the Maldives

(a) Any person transporting hazardous waste and other types of waste across the territory of the Maldives must do so in accordance with relevant international treaties.

(b) As stated in subsection (a) of this Article, waste may be transported across the territory of the Maldives only by parties that have adequate insurance.

Chapter Ten
Hazardous Waste and Special Waste

47. Hazardous Waste

(a) Under this Act, hazardous waste shall include waste generated from the following substances.

(1) Explosives;
(2) Flammable liquids;
(3) Flammable solids;
(4) Substances liable to spontaneous combustion;
(5) Substances which, in contact with water, emit flammable gases;
(6) Substances or materials that, while not combustible themselves, may, by yielding oxygen, cause or contribute to the combustion of other material;
(7) Organic peroxides;
(8) Toxic substances;
(9) Infectious substances;
(10) Corrosives; and
(11) Ecotoxic substances.

(b) A list of hazardous waste generated from the substances mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be formulated by the Ministry, published in the Government Gazette, and made public on the Ministry's website within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act. This list shall be regularly updated and maintained, and any changes to the list shall be made public.

(c) It is an offense for any person to import, sell, use, or distribute hazardous waste or any item containing such waste in the Maldives.

(d) The penalty for a person who commits an offense stated in subsection (c) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand) and MVR 5,000,000 (five million) imposed by the Agency or a party designated by the Agency.

(e) Hazardous waste shall not be recycled, its useful materials shall not be recovered, and it shall not be processed for any other such purpose in the Maldives.

48. Special Waste

For the purpose of this Act, special waste is waste of types that require special safety measures in its transport and management, excluding the waste included in the list of hazardous waste published by the Ministry under Article 47(b) of this Act.

49. Management of Hazardous and Special Waste

To indicate hazardous waste that requires special priority in its management by hazardous and special waste management centers and other entities managing such waste, a list specifying chemical substances, environmental pollutants, environmental contaminants, and substances that naturally convert to toxic gas, which require special priority in preventing their release and taking action if released, shall be formulated by the Ministry, published in the Government Gazette, and made public on the Ministry's website within 3 (three) months from the commencement of this Act.

50. Reporting Incidents Involving Hazardous and Special Waste

If a type of waste specified under Articles 47 and 48 of this Act is released, spilled, spread, or leaked from a waste management center or any other place in an amount specified by regulation as a reportable quantity, the owner or operator of that center, or the owner of the place where such a substance was released, or the person responsible for the place where the incident occurred at that time, shall immediately inform the council responsible for the administration of the area where the incident occurred and the Agency.

51. National Action Plan for Incidents Involving Hazardous and Special Waste

Within 6 (six) months from the date of commencement of this Act, a plan specifying the course of action at a national level in the event of an incident of release, spillage, spreading, or leakage of hazardous and special waste into the environment shall be prepared by the Ministry, published in the Government Gazette, and made public on the Ministry's website.

52. Inventory of Hazardous and Special Waste

(a) Waste management centers and waste management entities operating under a permit or license issued under this Act shall maintain an inventory of the hazardous and special waste they handle or manage, in accordance with the regulation formulated under this Act.

(b) The regulation mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be formulated by the Ministry, published in the Government Gazette, and made public on the Ministry's website within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act.

Chapter Eleven
Littering and Environmental Pollution from Waste

53. Littering

(a) It is an offense for any person to dispose of waste in any place or object other than one designated for waste disposal.

(b) If any person violates subsection (a) of this Article, the Agency or a party designated by the Agency shall take action against that person in accordance with the regulation made under this Act.

54. Waste Generated from Activities in Public Places

Any person conducting an activity in public places or areas including public places with public participation must do so in a manner that they are responsible for the waste generated in connection with such an activity. And it is the responsibility of that person to transport the waste to the area designated for its disposal in accordance with the established procedure for waste management of that island or city.

55. Controlling Gas Emissions from Waste Management Activities

To prevent air pollution from gas and substances released into the atmosphere in connection with activities such as waste collection, transportation, storage, processing, and treatment, a regulation specifying the procedures to be followed and standards to be complied with to stop, reduce, and control the emission of such gas shall be formulated by the Ministry, published in the Government Gazette, and made public on the Ministry's website within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act.

56. Identifying Environments Contaminated by Hazardous Waste

(a) If an environment becomes contaminated due to the release, spillage, spreading, or leakage of hazardous waste as a result of an activity conducted by a particular party, that party, upon becoming aware of it, shall immediately inform the Agency and the council responsible for the administration of the area where that environment is located.

(b) If a situation mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article occurs, a regulation specifying the procedure to be followed shall be formulated by the Ministry, published in the Government Gazette, and made public on the Ministry's website within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act.

(c) For the purpose of this Article, a registry containing information on places determined by the Agency to be contaminated shall be formulated by the Ministry, published in the Government Gazette, and made public on the Ministry's website within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act.

57. Illegally Dumping Hazardous Waste in Places

(a) It is an offense to dump hazardous waste, chemical substances, oil, or any other substance containing oil products onto land, into a body of water, into the lagoon, or into the sea, except in accordance with a regulation made under this Act or as stated in any other law.

(b) The penalty for a person who commits an offense stated in subsection (a) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 1,000,000 (one million) and MVR 5,000,000 (five million) imposed by the Agency or a party designated by the Agency.

58. Acting in an Emergency Situation

(a) Upon the occurrence of an incident requiring immediate action as determined by the Agency, such as the release, spillage, spreading, or leakage of a hazardous waste, special waste, an environmental pollutant, or a substance that naturally converts to toxic gas into the environment due to a waste management-related activity, the Agency shall immediately instruct the operator or maintainer of that place to take the necessary public health and environmental protection measures to rectify the situation, as well as any other appropriate measures related to the matter.

(b) If a situation as described in subsection (a) of this Article occurs, the Agency has the authority to assess the environmental damage and seek compensation for the damage caused to the environment.

Chapter Twelve
Maintaining Waste-Related Information and Conducting Waste Audits

59. Information Collection, Record Keeping, and Provision of Information

(a) To encourage the maintenance of waste management information and records and reporting in a uniform manner, a regulation specifying the procedures to be followed in preparing waste management statistics and maintaining information shall be formulated by the Ministry, published in the Government Gazette, and made public on the Ministry's website within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act.

(b) Every party required to collect and maintain waste management information under a regulation made pursuant to this Act shall prepare and maintain such records as specified in the regulation. And, the records shall be provided to the Ministry once every year.

(c) It is the responsibility of the party to whom such an order is addressed to prepare and provide the information specified in an order by the Authority to submit waste generation and waste management information or statistics, or to obtain and provide that information through another party.

60. Waste Audit

Based on the information mentioned in Article 59 of this Act, an audit revealing the state of waste in the Maldives shall be conducted by the Ministry and published once a year in the Government Gazette and made public on the Ministry's website.

Chapter Thirteen
Offenses and Penalties

61. Taking Administrative Action

If any person violates this Act or a regulation, the following entities may take the administrative actions specified below.

(a) The Authority may take the following administrative actions under this Act.

(1) Ordering the correction of matters that need rectification within a specified period;
(2) Issuing a warning;
(3) Imposing a fine;
(4) Revoking the operating license or permit.

(b) In a situation where an operating license or permit is revoked under item (4) of subsection (a) of this Article, the license or permit shall be revoked only after making arrangements for the uninterrupted provision of that service.

(c) The Agency may take the following administrative actions under this Act.

(1) Giving advice if household waste is dumped in a place not designated for waste disposal, and imposing a fine if repeated.
(2) Fining any person who disposes of any type of municipal waste, hazardous waste, or special waste in a place other than those designated for such waste disposal, and for any act such as transporting any type of waste from one island of the Maldives to another, carrying out treatment work, or accumulating it in public places.

(d) MIRA may take the following administrative actions under this Act. And the business activity that violated this Act or the regulation made hereunder shall be responsible for the offense mentioned in this Article.

(1) A business activity providing a plastic bag to a customer without charging a fee for the plastic bag, in accordance with the manner specified in this Act and the regulations made hereunder;
(2) Violation of Article 35 of this Act.

(e) The penalty for a person who commits an offense specified in subsection (d) of this Article is a fine of between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand).

(f) Notwithstanding subsection (e) of this Article, for parties registered for GST with MIRA, Act No. 3/2010 (Tax Administration Act) shall apply in taking action and determining offenses and penalties.

62. Criminal Prosecution

In enforcing this Act and the regulations made hereunder, if an act committed by any person in violation of this Act or a regulation constitutes a criminal offense, the matter shall be submitted to the relevant authorities for investigation.

63. Administrative Penalties

Unless otherwise stated in this Act, parties who violate this Act shall be given the administrative penalties specified in this Article.

(a) If a party required to prepare an industrial waste management plan has not prepared such a plan, a fine not exceeding MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand) shall be imposed on that party by the Authority or a party designated by the Authority.

(b) If any party violates an order to provide information, a fine not exceeding MVR 5,000 (five thousand) shall be imposed on that party by the Authority or a party designated by the Authority.

(c) Importing waste into the Maldives in violation of this Act is an offense. And a party who commits such an offense shall be fined MVR 5,000,000 (five million) by the Authority.

(d) Exporting hazardous waste from the Maldives in violation of this Act is an offense. And a party who commits such an offense shall be fined MVR 5,000,000 (five million) by the Authority.

(e) If any party violates this Act or a regulation made under the Act, a fine of between MVR 100 (one hundred) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand) shall be imposed on that party, depending on the severity of the act.

(f) If a party required to obtain a permit or license under this Act acts without obtaining a permit or license, or acts in violation of a permit or license obtained, a fine of between MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand) and MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand) shall be imposed on that party by the Authority or a party designated by the Authority, depending on the severity of the act.

(k) It is an offense to import, sell, use, or distribute in the Maldives any item included in the list of prohibited items published under this Act, or to act in relation to such an item in a manner contrary to the principles and standards established under this Act. The penalty for a person who commits such an act is a fine not exceeding MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand).

(l) A regulation specifying the procedures for imposing fines for the penalties for which fines are prescribed under this Act shall be formulated by the Ministry, published in the Government Gazette, and made public on the Ministry's website within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act.

64. Money Received as Fines

(a) Unless otherwise stated in this Act, money paid as a fine under this Act shall be deposited to the island or city council to which the place where the offense was committed belongs.

(b) If an offense specified in this Act is committed in an area not within the jurisdiction of an island or city council, the fine paid for such an offense shall be deposited into the "Maldives Green Fund" established under Act No. 3/2006 (Public Finance Act).

65. Right of Penalized Parties

Among the parties against whom action is taken by the Authority or the Agency because it appears to the Authority or the Agency that they have violated this Act or a regulation made hereunder, a party dissatisfied with the action taken by the Authority or the Agency has the right to submit the matter to the relevant court within 30 (thirty) days.

Chapter Fourteen
Miscellaneous

66. Previously Issued Permits

Permits issued to various parties for providing waste services before the commencement of this Act shall remain valid until the expiry of the permit, as long as they are not revoked under this Act. And after the expiry of that permit, a new permit will be issued in accordance with the principles specified in this Act and the regulations made hereunder.

67. Previous Laws and Regulations

Relevant laws and regulations formulated and in effect before the commencement of this Act shall continue to be applied until the regulations required to be formulated under this Act are formulated and made public.

68. Legal Protection

In enforcing this Act and the regulations made hereunder, an employee shall not be held personally liable for any loss incurred or for any trial related to such a matter in the course of performing his or her duties. In such cases, the liability shall be borne by the institution where the employee works.

69. Maintaining Confidentiality

Each party shall maintain the confidentiality of information exchanged as confidential between service providers and government agencies.

70. Non-discrimination in Service Provision

In exercising the powers vested under this Act, preference shall not be given to a particular party to obtain an unfair advantage, and actions shall not be taken to the detriment of a particular party.

71. Additional Fee Payable by the Service Provider

A fee other than the fee payable under this Act and its regulations may be charged from a licensed service provider by another party only with the permission of the Authority.

72. Making Regulations

(a) Unless otherwise specified in this Act, all regulations and principles that must be made under this Act shall be made by the Ministry.

(b) Unless otherwise specified in this Act, the regulations and principles mentioned in subsection (a) of this Article shall be formulated, published in the Government Gazette, and made public on the Ministry's website within 6 (six) months from the commencement of this Act.

73. Conflict with Other Laws

If an article in this Act conflicts or is inconsistent with an article or principle concerning a waste management matter included in another law, this Act shall take precedence in acting on the conflicting matter.

74. Repealed Articles of Law

With the commencement of this Act, Articles 1-8 of Act No. 4/93 (Environmental Protection and Preservation Act of Maldives) are repealed.

75. Commencement of the Act

This Act shall commence on the date it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

76. Definitions

In this Act, unless the context in which a word or phrase is used clearly indicates otherwise, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given below.

(a) "Waste" refers to any substance or object which is discarded or intended to be discarded or is required to be discarded. Such items considered as waste include solids, liquids, and gases.

(b) "Special Waste" refers to waste classified as such due to its type or quantity, which is considered to have a potential adverse effect on public health or the environment.

(c) "Hazardous Waste" refers to waste classified as hazardous due to its chemical properties, or because it poses a risk to public health and the environment, or due to its explosive nature, or because it is a type of waste that spreads disease.

(d) "Hazardous and Special Waste Management Center" refers to a center designated for conducting management activities of any type of waste determined to be hazardous or special waste.

(e) "Recycling" refers to the process of making or producing things using items discarded as waste.

(f) "Recovery of Useful Materials" refers to the separation of useful components and materials from waste for production purposes, and the generation of energy from waste, during safe waste management.

(g) "Council" refers to an atoll, city, or island council established under Act No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act of Maldives).

(h) "Littering" refers to the act of dumping, throwing, leaving, pouring, leaking, seeping, or dropping any item considered as waste into any place or object other than one permitted for waste disposal.

(i) "Waste Segregation" refers to the separation of different components of waste as instructed by the waste management and relevant authorities.

(j) "Waste Disposal" refers to the safe discarding of what remains after all necessary waste management measures have been taken.

(k) "Waste Generation" refers to the act of turning an object into waste.

(l) "Waste Management" refers to waste collection, treatment, recovery of useful materials, recycling, waste services, and waste disposal.

(m) "Waste Audit" refers to the assessment of the types, quantity, characteristics, and components of waste generated in connection with a specific activity.

(n) "Jurisdiction" refers to the area over which a council has jurisdiction under Act No. 7/2010 (Decentralization Act of Maldives).

(o) "Collection" refers to the gathering of waste from various locations into one place or the collection at a specific location for the purpose of transporting it from one place to another.

(p) "Importing" shall have the meaning given to that term in Act No. 31/79 (Export Import Act of Maldives).

(q) "Exporting" shall have the meaning given to that term in Act No. 31/79 (Export Import Act of Maldives).

(r) "Reuse" refers to using items included in waste for their original purpose or for another purpose without making any change to their physical properties.

(s) "Extended Producer Responsibility" refers to the practical and financial responsibility that a producer or importer of a product must bear for managing the product after it has lost its usefulness and become waste.

(t) "Public Places" refers to roads, streets, and places where people gather for social purposes.

(u) "Waste Reduction" refers to taking measures to stop waste generation, and in situations where waste generation cannot be avoided, to reduce the amount generated and its hazardous characteristics, and to reduce the amount discarded.

(v) "Industrial Waste" refers to waste generated from industrial and commercial activities. Waste of types produced in common places that are discarded from such locations are also included as industrial waste.

(w) "Municipal Waste" refers to waste generated from households and waste from economic activities that has similar characteristics to household waste.

(x) "Construction Waste" refers to waste such as crushed stone and concrete generated or discarded during the stages of construction.

(y) "Storage" refers to keeping waste collected in one place before starting the process of treatment, disposal, or recovery of useful materials from waste.

(z) "Pollution" refers to the contamination of the natural environment caused by a substance introduced by humans as waste.

(aa) "Treatment" refers to taking measures to reduce the harm or potential harm to the environment or public health from items generated as waste, by using methods that destroy them or by using other methods to eliminate the hazardous properties of the waste or to reduce its quantity.

(ab) "Processing" refers to the activities carried out to recycle waste and to recover useful materials from waste.

(ac) "Minister" refers to the Minister of the ministry entrusted at the time with the responsibility of implementing environmental policies.

(ad) "Ministry" refers to the ministry entrusted at the time with the responsibility of implementing environmental policies.

(ae) "Authority" refers to the Utility Regulatory Authority established under Act No. 26/2020 (Utility Regulatory Authority Act).

(af) "Agency" refers to the Environmental Protection Agency.

(ag) "MIRA" refers to the Maldives Inland Revenue Authority established under Act No. 3/2010 (Tax Administration Act).

(ah) "Single-Use Plastic" refers to any item made wholly or partly of plastic, which is not produced or designed or placed on the market to be used more than once, excluding items that are produced or designed or placed on the market to be used more than once for the item it contains.

(ai) "Production of Single-Use Plastic" refers to the production of a type of single-use plastic for the purpose of releasing it to the market or for any other use.

(aj) "Releasing Single-Use Plastic to the Market" refers to making a type of single-use plastic available on the market for distribution, purchase, or use through a commercial transaction, with or without payment.

(ak) "Plastic Bag Fee" refers to the fee charged under this Act for plastic bags provided to customers at the point of sale by business activities in the Maldives.

(al) "Plastic Bag" refers to bags made of plastic (including oxo-degradable and synthetic polymer-produced, naturally degradable plastic) used for carrying goods.

(am) "Point of Sale" refers to the place where the transaction of buying and selling goods takes place.

(an) "Customer" refers to the person who buys goods.

(ao) "Business Activity" refers to all parties responsible for selling goods being transported.

(ap) "Fish" refers to unpackaged:

(1) Ocean fish and parts of ocean fish;
(2) Reef fish and parts of reef fish;
(3) Bait and types of bait; and
(4) Types of seafood.

(aq) "Landfilling" refers to the burying of waste in the ground or at sea as a means of disposal.

(ar) "Disposal" refers to the safe final disposal of waste as a last step.
