Water and Sewerage Act

Chapter One
Introduction

Preamble and Name

1.
(a) This is the law that establishes the principles and standards for the provision of water and sewerage services, to facilitate the provision of safe, clean water to all residents of the Maldives, and to establish a sewerage system of a standard appropriate to each inhabited island, and to establish the principles for the protection and maintenance of the water resources of the Maldives, and other related matters.

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Water and Sewerage Act".

Main Objectives of the Act

2.
The objectives of this Act are set out below.

(a) To ensure that the people receive safe and usable clean water that is healthy to use.

(b) To establish a sewerage system of a standard appropriate to each inhabited island, and to establish and ensure ways in which such services can be provided to the people in a sustainable manner.

(c) To protect, conserve, develop and ensure the full benefit of available water resources in a manner that is sustainable for present and future generations.

(d) To ensure the provision of adequate water and sewerage services in the islands and places leased for tourism in the Maldives and in the islands and places leased for industrial purposes.

(e) To regulate and supervise the water and sewerage services and the providers of such services, and to define the rights of the recipients of water and sewerage services and the responsibilities of the service providers.

(f) To encourage the relevant government authorities to formulate a long-term plan and work under it to prevent or reduce the negative impacts on water resources.

(g) To establish a system for taking action against those who intentionally damage water and sewerage systems or who are negligent in the operation and maintenance of water and sewerage systems.

(h) To increase the participation of private parties in water and sewerage services.

(i) To minimize the damage to the environment during the establishment and operation of water and sewerage systems.

(j) To increase public participation in the provision of water and sewerage services and to provide services closer to the people; and

(k) To build human resources in the water and sewerage sector, to develop the industry and to promote the economic and social development of the Maldives in that sector.

Chapter Two
Rights

Right to Safe Water

3.
(a) Every person living in the Maldives has the right to an adequate amount of safe water for personal and essential needs.

(b) For the purpose of this section (a), the right to an adequate amount of safe water includes the right to clean and safe water services at a reasonably affordable price, and the right to access such services or other water resources.

(c) For the purpose of this section, the availability of safe water in an amount sufficient for essential needs means the availability of water in an amount sufficient for eating and drinking, for personal hygiene, and for maintaining cleanliness of living quarters and utensils.

(d) Water provided for eating and drinking must be hygienically safe.

(e) Water provided for essential needs, other than eating and drinking, shall be reasonably clean, and free from bad odor and taste.

(f) Water and water resources shall be easily accessible to all persons living in the Maldives without discrimination.

(g) In every inhabited island, the means of providing water services shall be established in a manner that is easily accessible to all residents. In addition, in islands leased for agriculture, tourism, and industrial purposes, facilities for providing water services in the required quantity for those living and working on such islands shall be established.

(h) Water and water resources shall be available at a reasonably affordable price.

Right to an Adequate Sewerage System Service

4.
(a) Every person in every inhabited island has the right to the service of an adequate sewerage system.

(b) For the purpose of this section (a), the right to the service of an adequate sewerage system means the right to the service of a sewerage system appropriate to the island where that person resides.

Responsibilities of the State

5.
In order to provide the rights specified in this chapter to the people, the state shall do the following:

(a) To establish and promote the necessary facilities for the sustainable provision of water and sewerage services.

(b) To ensure the availability of hygienically safe clean water and a good quality sewerage service.

(c) To do everything possible at that time to remove all difficulties and obstacles in the provision of water and sewerage services.

(d) To ensure that a robust system is in place to provide the people with the right to safe drinking water and a good quality sewerage service, free from any hindrance from any party.

(e) To set water standards for the provision of hygienically safe water services.

(f) To encourage the provision of water and sewerage services to persons in need of special protection by giving special attention and priority to them.

(g) To ensure that the providers of water and sewerage services are providing services in accordance with the standards specified in this Act.

(h) To conduct necessary research to develop and modernize the water and sewerage services and to make necessary technological changes to the services being provided.

Chapter Three
Role of Institutions

Responsibility for Policy Making

6.
(a) Water and sewerage services shall be provided in accordance with the policies determined by the government. The policies on water and sewerage in the Maldives shall be determined by the Minister with the advice of the President. The policies determined by the Minister in this manner shall be published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives in a publicly accessible manner. If any change is made to these policies, such changes shall be regularly gazetted.

(b) Any person planning or conducting any work related to water and sewerage shall fully comply with the policies formulated under subsection (a) of this section.

Enforcement of the Law

7.
This Act shall be enforced by the Authority, in accordance with the policies determined by the Minister, as provided for in section 6 of this Act.

Responsibilities of the Ministry

8.
In order to enforce this Act, the Ministry shall do the following:

(a) To formulate and implement a national policy on the sustainable provision of water and sewerage services in the islands of the Maldives.

(b) To make all necessary regulations for the implementation of this Act and to ensure that such regulations are enforced.

(c) To make arrangements in coordination with the relevant government authorities to establish and operate a water and sewerage system appropriate to each inhabited island of the Maldives within a maximum of 5 (five) years from the date of commencement of this Act.

(d) To ensure, in coordination with the relevant government authorities, that a water and sewerage system appropriate to the island or area is established and operated in a sustainable manner in the islands and areas leased for tourism and in the islands and areas leased for industrial purposes.

(e) To make regulations on how to provide subsidies in cases where water and sewerage services need to be subsidized, with the advice of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Protection, the supervisory body of local councils, and other relevant institutions.

(f) To make regulations regarding the maximum price that can be charged for water and sewerage services with the advice of the Ministry of Finance and local councils.

(g) To conduct necessary research for the development and sustainability of the water and sewerage sector.

(h) To provide advice and guidance to government institutions on matters related to water and sewerage.

(i) To collect, maintain, and publish all statistical data related to water resources and water and sewerage systems in the islands of the Maldives.

(j) To formulate regulations for testing and certifying equipment used for the establishment of water and sewerage systems.

(k) To establish water testing laboratories to ensure the safety of water supplied for public use and to make arrangements for the availability of their services.

(l) To create opportunities to provide high-quality, sustainable, and affordable water and sewerage services.

(m) To seek the consultation of relevant ministries, local councils, relevant government institutions, relevant voluntary organizations, and the general public in determining water and sewerage policies.

(n) To set national targets for water and sewerage and to carry out necessary national level work to find the financial and technical resources needed to achieve those targets.

(o) To provide financial assistance, advice, and guidance to councils regarding water and sewerage services, and to carry out necessary national level work to increase the capacity of councils.

(p) To coordinate the work of the body that oversees the regulation of water and sewerage services and to monitor its plans and strategies.

(q) To monitor the manner in which councils provide water and sewerage services to the people and to oversee the implementation of related projects.

(r) To create a conducive environment for the development of water and sewerage services and the promotion of private sector participation in the provision of services.

(s) Within 1 (one) year from the date of commencement of this Act, the Minister shall formulate a master plan in consultation with relevant institutions regarding water and sewerage policies, and review the master plan every 10 (ten) years.

(t) If any change needs to be made to the master plan, it shall be made in consultation with relevant institutions.

(u) To formulate regulations regarding the design, establishment, and provision of services from water and sewerage systems in consultation with relevant institutions.

(v) To conduct public awareness programs on water and sewerage.

Responsibilities and Powers of Councils

9.
Under this Act, councils shall have the following responsibilities and powers:

(a) To implement at the island level all matters specified as the responsibilities of councils in this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

(b) To plan water and sewerage services at the island level, formulate projects, and implement projects.

(c) To make arrangements for the equitable provision of water and sewerage services at the island level.

(d) To find the financial and technical resources needed to provide water and sewerage services.

(e) To determine the price to be charged for water and sewerage services in that island with the advice of the people, in a manner that does not exceed the price determined by the Authority in accordance with the government's policies and the regulations made under this Act.

(f) If the provision of water and sewerage services is to be entrusted to a third party, to entrust the work to such a party in accordance with the relevant regulations and procedures, and to take necessary measures at the island level to monitor the manner in which that party provides the service and to maintain the quality of the service in accordance with the relevant regulations.

(g) To protect the rights of the service provider and the service recipient at the island level.

(h) To plan and conduct public awareness programs on water and sewerage at the island level.

(i) To ensure that the water and sewerage system established on the island does not adversely affect the natural water lens of the island and the environment of the island's reef and lagoon.

(j) To provide information requested by relevant government agencies and the Ministry for the purpose of formulating national policies on water and sewerage and for collecting various statistics.

(k) To ensure that the people living within the council's jurisdiction have access to the required amount of water from that island.

(l) To entrust the work of providing water and sewerage services, which is assigned to the councils, to a licensed party under an agreement made with that party, and to carry out the work.

Agreement for Provision of Services

10.
The agreement for the provision of services under section 9 (l) of this Act shall include the following:

(a) The powers granted to the service provider under the service agreement.

(b) The terms of service provision.

(c) The procedures for the operation, maintenance, development, repair, and maintenance of the quality of the water and sewerage system, and for its further development.

(d) That any dispute arising in connection with the service agreement shall be submitted to the relevant court of the Maldives.

(e) That any dispute arising in connection with the service agreement shall be resolved in accordance with the laws of the Maldives.

Responsibilities of the Authority

11.
The main responsibilities of the Authority are set out below:

(a) To provide necessary technical assistance to the Ministry in making regulations that include the procedures and standards to be followed for the implementation of this Act.

(b) To issue licenses to water producers and sewerage service providers in the Maldives, to register information about them, and to publish relevant information.

(c) To register and maintain a register of information on freshwater production plants established by parties engaged in public use, tourism, agriculture, and various industrial activities.

(d) To ensure that every individual living in islands where water and sewerage services are established is provided with water and sewerage services, and that there is no discrimination in the provision of such services based on race, country of origin, color, age, gender, physical or mental disability, political or other opinion, financial status, family to which one belongs, island of birth, or any other matter.

(e) To review whether the water and sewerage systems are designed in accordance with the standards specified in the regulations formulated by the Ministry under this Act for the design of such systems, and to approve and authorize such designs.

(f) To assess the quality of parties who design water wiring and water and sewerage systems, to issue licenses to engineers who design water and sewerage systems and to parties who do water wiring, and to compile and publish a register of such parties.

(g) To raise public awareness and familiarize the public with the laws, regulations, and procedures enforced by the Authority.

(h) To ensure that charges for water and sewerage services are being collected in accordance with the relevant regulations.

(i) To take action against parties who violate this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

(j) To ensure that water and sewerage services are being provided in the inhabited islands of the Maldives in accordance with the established standards.

(k) To ensure that the most appropriate water and sewerage system is established in each of the inhabited islands of the Maldives.

(l) To determine the standards for equipment used for providing water and sewerage services in consultation with relevant institutions.

(m) To determine the standards for water produced for commercial and public use in consultation with relevant institutions.

(n) To ensure the quality of water supplied for public use in coordination with local councils and service providers.

(o) To collect all information and statistics related to water and sewerage services and to provide such information to the Ministry when required by the Ministry.

(p) To ensure that the service provider is providing services in accordance with the standards set for service provision, in this regard, to maintain and monitor the safety of the water and sewerage services, water pressure, water quality, wastewater treatment standards, water flow rate, billing procedures, matters related to water meters, and matters specified for implementation in service provision.

(q) To determine the standards for water discharged from sewerage and freshwater production plants in consultation with relevant institutions.

(r) To collect necessary information for research on water and sewerage, to encourage public parties to conduct such research, and to disclose this information.

(s) To determine the standards required to reduce water wastage in water supply and water-using appliances, machinery, and equipment in consultation with relevant institutions.

(t) To formulate standards for the design, establishment, and provision of services from water and sewerage systems in consultation with relevant institutions.

(u) To determine the standards for testing and certifying equipment used for the establishment of water and sewerage systems.

Powers of the Authority

12.
In order to enforce the matters specified in this Act, the Authority shall have the following powers under this Act:

(a) To issue, renew, amend, suspend, and revoke licenses for parties who design water and sewerage systems.

(b) To monitor water and sewerage service providers and to take action against those who violate the regulations in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

(c) To investigate disputes arising in connection with water and sewerage services and to take necessary measures to resolve them.

(d) To investigate and inspect cases where it is believed that an act has been committed in violation of this Act and the regulations made under this Act in connection with a water and sewerage service, and for that purpose to enter premises and summon persons who need to be summoned.

(e) To issue orders to parties who need to be ordered to do things in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

(f) To fine parties who violate this Act and the regulations made under this Act and to take action against them under the law and regulations.

(g) To receive and investigate complaints regarding the fees charged for water and sewerage services, the quality of the service, the fairness of the service, the reliability of the service, and other matters related to the service, and to investigate complaints and cases that are submitted.

(h) To check whether licensed parties are acting in accordance with the conditions specified in the license for the provision of services.

(i) To inspect, approve, and grade the standards required to reduce water wastage in water supply and water-using appliances, machinery, and equipment.

(j) To obtain all necessary documents from the water and sewerage service provider to investigate a complaint submitted in connection with a water and sewerage service.

(k) To charge fees for the services provided by the Authority; and

(l) If it is proven that water is being used from the natural water lens of the island, or from a lake or a swamp, to stop it and take necessary action.

International Agreements and Treaties

13.
(a) If the Maldivian government becomes a party to international agreements and treaties related to water and sewerage, the Ministry shall, with the advice and guidance of the relevant sectors, do the following:

(1) To formulate the legal framework required to carry out all obligations imposed on the state by such agreements and treaties.

(2) To make all necessary arrangements for the implementation of such agreements and treaties in the Maldives; and

(3) To communicate with international parties regarding the treaties and to represent the Maldives at various meetings.

(b) The Ministry shall maintain and publish a register of all international agreements and treaties related to water and sewerage to which the Maldivian government is a party.

Water and Sewerage Strategic Plan

14.
(a) In order to develop and advance the water and sewerage sector of the Maldives and to improve the quality of service, the Ministry shall, in consultation with relevant institutions and in accordance with the water and sewerage policies, formulate a 5 (five) year strategic plan. The strategic plan shall be reviewed every 5 (five) years.

(b) Before the end of each calendar year, the Ministry shall prepare a report on the implementation of the strategic plan during the past year and submit it to the President's Office.

(c) In order to facilitate the formulation of the strategic plan by the Ministry under this section, government institutions shall provide the Ministry with the necessary information.

(d) The strategic plan mentioned in subsection (a) of this section shall be formulated within 3 (three) months from the date of commencement of this Act.

(e) If any change needs to be made to the plan mentioned in subsection (a) of this section, it shall be made after consulting with relevant institutions.

Plan Determined by the Service Provider

15.
(a) Every party licensed to provide water and sewerage services shall, in accordance with the national water and sewerage policy, submit a plan for the provision of water and sewerage services to the Ministry before the start of each calendar year. A report on the implementation of the plan during that year shall be submitted to the Ministry and the Authority within the first 3 (three) months of the following calendar year.

(b) The plan mentioned in subsection (a) of this section shall include the following:

(1) Water quality;
(2) Amount of unaccounted-for water;
(3) Amount of service interruption;
(4) Amount of expenditure;
(5) Income received; and
(6) Details of CSR activities.

Responsibility of Other Government Institutions

16.
In protecting and maintaining water resources and water and sewerage systems under this Act, relevant government agencies shall provide assistance and cooperation to the Ministry in fulfilling its responsibilities.

Chapter Four
Water Resources

Ownership of Natural Water Resources

17.
All natural water resources within the territory of the Maldives are the property of the Maldivian state.

Protection of Available Water

18.
(a) The groundwater lens of uninhabited islands leased for agriculture, industrial purposes, and tourism, including areas of land reclaimed from lagoons for such purposes, and the groundwater lens of such reclaimed areas, are protected entities.

(b) Unless otherwise provided in any other law, the water resources protected under this Act shall be managed and maintained in the manner prescribed in the regulations made under this Act.

(c) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of this section, this section shall not prevent the digging of wells and the extraction and use of groundwater for personal use, or the collection and use of rainwater, or the extraction and use of seawater, provided that it does not involve the provision of water services on a commercial basis or for a fee.

(d) Water shall be extracted by drilling for desalination only in a manner that does not cause any damage to the natural water lens of that island.

(e) Desalination intakes shall be at a depth that penetrates the island's water lens and does not adversely affect the water lens.

(f) In addition to the resources specified in this Act as protected water resources, other water resources shall be protected upon a decision by the Cabinet of Ministers to protect that resource and its publication in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

Non-use of Natural Water Resources for Industrial Purposes

19.
(a) The groundwater lens of uninhabited islands leased for agriculture and other industrial purposes, and islands created by reclaiming lagoons for such purposes, and the land added to such islands, and the water in lakes and naturally formed bodies of water are not water resources that can be used for industrial purposes.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, parties who are carrying out agriculture in uninhabited islands leased for agriculture at the time of the commencement of this Act shall be given a period of 2 (two) years to install a water plant or to make arrangements to produce water in any other way as provided for in this Act.

(c) Among the parties engaged in agriculture in inhabited islands, only those who carry out agriculture in an area of 10,000 (ten thousand) square meters or more shall be required to act in accordance with subsection (a) of this section.

(d) It is the responsibility of the party in charge of the work to arrange a system for producing water required for agriculture and industrial purposes through desalination, rainwater harvesting, or by using any other technology.

Contamination of the Water Lens

20.
(a) No person shall, intentionally or negligently, do anything that may contaminate the water lens of the islands of the Maldives.

(b) The use of fertilizers essential for agriculture and the installation of septic systems in homes shall not be considered a situation as described in subsection (a) of this section.

(c) Any substance that may contaminate the groundwater if it seeps into the ground shall be transported from one place to another by land in the Maldives only in a manner that it is properly sealed so that it does not leak onto the ground, in accordance with the regulations formulated under this Act.

(d) If any substance such as oil and chemicals that may contaminate the groundwater if it seeps into the ground is transported from one place to another in separate containers or in any other container, it shall be properly secured so that it does not fall during transportation.

(e) If any substance of a type that may contaminate water is spilled onto the road or ground during the transportation of any substance such as oil and chemicals that may contaminate groundwater if it seeps into the ground, the responsibility for cleaning it up and for taking necessary actions to rectify the contamination of the ground and water caused by the spillage of such substances shall be borne by the party who transported them.

(f) It is prohibited to transport any substance such as oil and chemicals that may contaminate groundwater if it seeps into the ground from one place to another by land in violation of this section.

(g) It is prohibited for any person, intentionally or negligently, to spill substances such as oil and chemicals onto the ground and into the groundwater lens.

(h) If the groundwater is contaminated by the spillage of any substance as described in subsection (c) of this section while it is being stored, the owner of that substance shall be responsible for it.

(i) Water containing oil or chemicals produced during the washing and cleaning of engines shall not be discharged into the ground or sea.

Dewatering by Extracting Water from the Ground

21.
(a) Water shall be extracted from the ground and dewatered for construction and other industrial projects only after obtaining a permit for that purpose in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

(b) If the water extracted from the ground of an island cannot be discharged into the ground due to the space of the island and the quality of the water extracted from the ground, that water may be discharged into the sea in a manner determined by the Authority in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

(c) It is prohibited to extract water from the ground and dewater it without the permission of the Authority as provided for in subsection (a) of this section, and to assist in any such act.

Freshwater Production System

22.
(a) It is prohibited to use a freshwater production system to extract and use water from the freshwater lens of the ground and from places such as lakes.

(b) After producing water from a freshwater production system, another type of water shall be mixed with it for public use only with the permission of the Authority and in accordance with a procedure determined by the Authority. It is prohibited to mix any type of water with the water produced from a freshwater production system and distribute it in any other way.

Use of Water from Water Resources in Disasters

23.
(a) The Authority has the power to authorize the use of water from a protected water resource in disasters, in the manner prescribed in the regulations made under this Act.

(b) The main principles to be followed in using water from a protected water resource in disasters shall be specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Disaster Preparedness

24.
(a) In order to prepare for a potential disaster or incident, the service provider or the party managing the island shall make arrangements to store an amount of clean drinking water estimated to be needed for 5 (five) days in inhabited islands, islands leased for tourism, and islands where industrial work is carried out, and to use it in such an incident.

(b) In determining the amount of clean drinking water to be stored in preparation for a potential disaster or incident in inhabited islands, islands leased for tourism, and islands where industrial work is carried out as mentioned in subsection (a) of this section, the proportion of people living on that island, the space available for storing water on the island, and the water resources available on that island shall be taken into consideration.

Chapter Five
Environmental Protection

Environmental Impact Assessment Report

25.
(a) A permit to establish a water and sewerage service system in the Maldives shall be granted only after an environmental impact assessment report has been prepared in accordance with Regulation No. 27-R/2012 (Regulation on Environmental Impact Assessment Report 2012) and the report has been approved by the Environmental Protection Agency.

(b) When approving the report mentioned in subsection (a) of this section, a condition shall be included in the license issued for the provision of water and sewerage services to comply with a condition set to minimize the damage to the environment in the implementation of the project.

Prioritizing Environmentally Friendly Technologies

26.
In providing water and sewerage services using different technologies, priority shall be given to the technologies that cause the least harm to the environment. The users of the service shall also give priority to the methods that cause the least harm to the environment when using the service.

Use of Renewable Energy

27.
(a) The energy used to produce water shall be energy produced using renewable resources.

(b) In order to achieve the objective stated in subsection (a) of this section, within 5 (five) years from the date of commencement of this Act, the service provider shall make the water plants that are in operation at the time of the commencement of this Act into water plants that operate using renewable energy.

(c) A license to operate a water plant after the commencement of this Act shall be granted only after ensuring that the electricity required to operate the plant is available from renewable energy. This shall be deemed to be ensured if arrangements are in place to produce that amount of electricity from renewable energy in a facility where the plant is established, or on the island where the plant is established, or on any island or islands connected to the same electricity network.

(d) Notwithstanding subsection (c) of this section, this Act shall not prevent the use of electricity produced by diesel generators in the event of a disaster or if the production of water is likely to be interrupted due to a problem with the renewable energy generation system.

Promoting Integrated Water Resource Management

28.
In providing supplied water services, when producing and supplying fresh water using saltwater, treated rainwater shall be included in the supplied water. Efforts shall be made to include the highest possible proportion of rainwater in the supplied water.

Chapter Six
Water and Sewerage Service Providers

Responsibility of Water and Sewerage Service Providers

29.
(a) Parties engaged in the provision of water and sewerage services shall carry out all necessary work to provide uninterrupted service to all persons residing in the area entrusted to them for service provision, in accordance with this Act and the regulations and procedures made under this Act.

(b) All reports required by the Authority for the regulation of water and sewerage services shall be submitted by the water and sewerage service providers in accordance with the procedures specified in the regulations made under this Act.

(c) Water produced and bottled in the Maldives shall meet the standards set by the relevant authorities.

(d) Water and sewerage service providers shall work to reduce their dependence on government financial assistance.

(e) In order to improve the quality of the services they provide, water and sewerage service providers shall develop the water and sewerage services in line with advancing technology.

(f) All water and sewerage service providers shall provide assistance and cooperation to the Ministry and the Authority in carrying out all the duties they are required to perform under this Act.

(g) The first time a water and sewerage pipe is connected to a place allocated for building a house for residential purposes shall be free of charge.

(h) In order to provide uninterrupted water and sewerage services, necessary equipment and materials shall be kept readily available, and in the event of a problem, the problem shall be resolved as soon as possible.

(i) The fees charged for water and sewerage services shall be displayed in a publicly visible manner.

(j) Water shall be tested in a prescribed manner to maintain its quality.

Certain Powers Vested in Water and Sewerage Service Providers

30.
(a) The service provider has the power to purchase, lease, produce, own, and maintain under its own custody the facilities, buildings, machinery, and other related items necessary for the provision of services.

(b) For the purpose of providing services, entry may be made into government and state buildings and into the premises of private individuals and businesses. When entering in this manner, it must be evident that the person is an employee of the service provider.

(c) Meters may be installed in the premises of private parties, and in government and state buildings for the purpose of providing services.

(d) The service provider may prohibit the recipient of the service from discharging a certain type of substance into the sewerage system.

Provision of Water Services

31.
(a) The water service systems established in the inhabited islands of the Maldives shall be established in accordance with the standards set by the Authority for the use of water for various purposes, with the advice of the Maldives Food and Drug Authority.

(b) While a license has been issued by the Authority to any party to provide water services on an island in the Maldives, another party may install a freshwater production system for their own use or a freshwater production system for commercial use on that island only if there is no objection from the Authority.

(c) The Authority shall determine and publish the standard for water to be supplied for public use in the provision of water services in the islands of the Maldives. The Authority shall also determine and publish the systems for providing water services, and the procedures to be followed in establishing such systems.

(d) The water systems established in the Maldives shall have adequate arrangements for disinfection and for testing for germs.

(e) If any change is to be made to the standards and procedures published by the Authority under subsection (c) of this section, the standards and procedures shall be re-announced with the change.

(f) It is the responsibility of the owner of a tall building in the Maldives to make arrangements to maintain the water pressure in a manner appropriate to that building. Such arrangements shall be in accordance with the standards set for that purpose by the Authority.

(g) If a service provider violates the standards set by the Authority for the service provider to comply with under this section, action may be taken against that party in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

Provision of Sewerage Services

32.
(a) The type of sewerage system to be established in inhabited islands, the method of classifying islands, and the islands where sewage and wastewater treatment systems will be installed shall be determined by the Ministry in accordance with the relevant government policies.

(b) Among the islands that fall under the classification determined by the Ministry under subsection (a) of this section at the time of the commencement of this Act, a sewage and wastewater treatment system of a standard appropriate to the sewerage system established on the islands where sewerage services are being provided without a wastewater treatment system shall be established within a period to be determined and announced by the Ministry.

(c) If the Ministry has imposed a condition on a particular party to establish a sewage and wastewater treatment system within a certain period before the commencement of this Act, the principles set out in this Act shall also apply to that party.

(d) It is prohibited to provide sewerage services without a sewage and wastewater treatment system on islands where the establishment of a sewage and wastewater treatment system is mandatory under this section, in a manner determined by the Ministry.

(e) Notwithstanding subsection (d) of this section, this section shall not prevent the discharge of water into the sea without the use of a sewage and wastewater treatment system in the event of a flood caused by heavy rain or tidal waves. However, this shall be done in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

(f) It is prohibited to discharge water extracted from the ground during industrial activities such as construction into a sewerage system on islands where a sewerage system with a sewage and wastewater treatment system is established.

(g) The sewerage systems established in the inhabited islands of the Maldives shall be in accordance with the standards set by the Authority in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

(h) The Authority shall publish the standards for the sewerage systems to be established in the islands of the Maldives, the standards for the design of such systems, and the procedures to be followed in establishing such systems.

(i) If any change is to be made to the standards and procedures published by the Authority under subsection (h) of this section, the standards and procedures shall be re-announced with the change.

(j) Water discharged from any sewerage system established under this Act may be discharged into the ground only after the water has been treated to a level that complies with the water standards determined by the Authority in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act, and with the permission of the Authority.

(k) Any type of water that may cause a problem to the operation of a sewage and wastewater treatment system shall be discharged into the sewerage system only in a manner determined by the Authority in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

(l) It is prohibited to do any act such as those mentioned in subsections (j) and (k) of this section in violation of this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

(m) If a service provider violates the standards set by the Authority for the service provider to comply with under this section, action may be taken against that party in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

Providing Services to the Underprivileged

33.
(a) In enforcing the powers vested in the service providers under this Act, lenient measures shall be arranged for the underprivileged residing in the service area in taking the following actions:

(1) In connecting water and sewerage services; and
(2) In disconnecting water and sewerage services.

(b) The list of underprivileged persons referred to in subsection (a) of this section shall be compiled by the council of each island in accordance with the regulations made by the Ministry under this Act.

Provision of Services under an Agreement

34.
(a) The provision of water or sewerage services in the Maldives under this Act shall be entrusted to any party under an agreement. Agreements made in this regard shall be registered with the Authority.

(b) The agreement made under subsection (a) of this section shall include the matters that the water or sewerage service providers are required or not required to do, in accordance with this Act and the regulations made under this Act.

Chapter Seven
Registration and Licensing

Registration

35.
Water and sewerage systems, and freshwater production plants established and operated in the Maldives shall be operated after being registered with the Authority in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

Issuance of Operating License

36.
Water or sewerage services shall be provided on any island in the Maldives only after obtaining an operating license issued for that purpose by the Authority, in accordance with the procedures for issuing licenses specified in the regulations made under this Act. The license issued by the Authority shall include the following:

(a) The period for which the license is issued;
(b) The purpose for which the license is issued;
(c) The area in which services can be provided under the license;
(d) The party or place to which the license is issued;
(e) The conditions under which the license is issued; and
(f) Other matters specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Issuance of Exclusive Operating License

37.
(a) An exclusive operating license may be granted to any party for the provision of any public service by the Authority only if it is in the national interest, with the advice of the Cabinet of Ministers, and with the written permission of the President.

(b) Upon receipt of the written permission of the President as provided for in subsection (a) of this section, the Authority shall have the power to add to, amend, or revoke the conditions of the exclusive operating license, taking into account the circumstances at that time.

(c) The general procedures for issuing exclusive operating licenses shall be determined and specified in the regulations made under this Act.

Conditions of License

38.
In issuing a license under section 36 of this Act, the following conditions shall be included:

(a) To maintain the water and sewerage system in accordance with the standards set by the Authority, to connect water and sewerage to homes, businesses, institutions, and other parties requiring the service, and to maintain the water system;

(b) To fully comply with the business plan mentioned in section 41 (a) (2) of this Act;

(c) To fully comply with the orders issued by the Authority in fulfilling the responsibilities vested in the Authority under this Act;

(d) To maintain records of water and sewerage services as directed by the Authority, and to submit a performance report prepared on the basis of those records to the Authority at the end of each calendar year; and

(e) To fulfill other conditions determined by the Authority in connection with the issuance of the license.

Procedure for Issuing Licenses

39.
The issuance of licenses for the provision of water and sewerage services shall be done in a fair, equitable, non-discriminatory, and transparent manner.

Term of License

40.
The term for which a license for the provision of water and sewerage services is issued under this Act is a maximum of 30 (thirty) years. If the Authority finds that the licensee has complied with the conditions of the license during that period, the term of the license may be extended.

Application for a License

41.
(a) The Authority shall publish the procedures to be followed by parties applying for the provision of water and sewerage services. When applying for a license, the following information shall be included in the application:

(1) The financial and technical capacity of the applicant;
(2) Business plan;
(3) Financial plan; and
(4) If a company, the company's board resolution, and if a council, the council's resolution.

(b) After the applicant has started providing the service, the Authority shall monitor the implementation of the business plan submitted by that party.

(c) Among the matters to be included in the business plan mentioned in subsection (a) (2) of this section, the Authority shall specify the following:

(1) If applying for the provision of water services, the quality of the water produced;
(2) If applying for the provision of water services, the water pressure;
(3) The method of operating and maintaining the water and sewerage system;
(4) The plan for expanding the service taking into account the increase in housing and population;
(5) The machinery and equipment to be used;
(6) The method of treating wastewater;
(7) The method of billing for the service;
(8) The method of calculating the figures when proposing a change to the service fee; and
(9) Information regarding the installation of meters for water services.

Charging for Services

42.
(a) The maximum price for the services of the water and sewerage systems established in the inhabited islands of the Maldives shall be determined by the Authority in accordance with the regulations made under this Act.

(b) Any money for a service provided through a water and sewerage system shall be charged in the manner prescribed in the regulations made under this Act.

(c) It is prohibited to charge any price for a water and sewerage service other than the price specified in the regulations made under this Act.

(d) The maximum prices that can be charged for water and sewerage services in every inhabited island in the Maldives shall be publicly announced in accordance with subsection (a) of this section. Any changes to this price shall be regularly published.

(e) The price of the service mentioned in subsection (a) of this section in inhabited islands shall be determined in consultation with the council of that island.

(f) Any change to the price of water and sewerage services shall be notified in writing to the parties receiving the service one (1) month in advance.

Submission of Performance Report

43.
At the end of each calendar year, the service provider shall prepare a performance report in a manner determined by the Authority and submit it to the council office, the Ministry, and the Authority before the end of March of the following calendar year. The performance report shall include the following:

(a) The extent to which the matters included in the conditions of the license have been achieved;
(b) The work done during the year to improve the service; and
(c) Other information determined by the Authority to be included in the report.

Filing Complaints

44.
(a) Any person using a water and sewerage service has the right to file a complaint with the Authority regarding a service that is being provided by a service provider in violation of the standards set in this Act.

(b) In relation to a complaint filed with the Authority as mentioned in subsection (a) of this section, the service provider shall be given an opportunity to rectify the matter.

(c) If the matter is not rectified within the opportunity given to rectify it as provided for in subsection (b) of this section, the Authority has the power to take action against such parties in the manner prescribed in the regulations made under this Act.

Chapter Eight
Investigation and Action

Obtaining Documents from Water and Sewerage Service Providers

45.
The Authority has the power to investigate a matter if it comes to its attention through a complaint or otherwise that a water and sewerage work carried out by any party is affecting the land, the groundwater lens, and water resources. In connection with such an investigation, if the Authority so requests, the party carrying out the work shall provide all necessary documents and information for that investigation.

Falsification of Documents

46.
(a) It is prohibited to submit any document that needs to be submitted to any party under this Act in a falsified manner.

(b) If the act mentioned in subsection (a) of this section constitutes a criminal offense, it shall be reported to the relevant authorities for investigation.

Power to Summon Persons for Investigation and to Investigate

47.
In a case being investigated by the Authority under this Act or a regulation made under this Act, the Authority has the power to summon and question any person who needs to be summoned and questioned, and to take that person's statement.

Power of Inspection

48.
For the purpose of enforcing this Act or a regulation made under this Act, if the Authority deems it necessary to inspect a place where a service is provided or a business is conducted with the permission or registration of the Authority, the Authority has the power to enter and inspect such places. The Authority has the power to enter such places and do the following:

(a) Take photographs and record videos;
(b) Inspect documents, copy necessary documents, and bring them to the Authority;
(c) Analyze water or things and take samples of water or those things.

Obtaining a Court Order for Inspection

49.
(a) Notwithstanding section 48 of this Act, if the owner or operator of a place does not give permission or consent to enter a place for inspection, the Authority shall enter that place to perform its duties under this Act under a court order.

(b) If an application is made to the relevant court for an order as mentioned in subsection (a) of this section, the court may issue such an order in any of the following circumstances:

(1) It is believed that entering the place to be inspected is necessary based on reasonable grounds, and that it is necessary to be able to enter that place;
(2) It is believed that it is necessary to enter that place to conduct tests, analyze, carry out necessary inspections, take photographs, record videos, or make necessary findings;
(3) It is believed that it is necessary to take samples of some of the things found in that place.

(c) A court order issued under this section shall state the period for which the order will remain in force.

Taking Administrative Action

50.
(a) In enforcing this Act and the regulations made under this Act, if any party violates this Act or a regulation, the Authority has the power to take administrative action taking into account the seriousness of the act committed. For the purpose of this Act, administrative action shall mean the following:

(1) To fine;
(2) To suspend the operating license or permit issued to that party for a specific period;
(3) To revoke the operating license or permit issued to that party;
(4) To fine and to suspend the operating license or permit issued to that party for a specific period;
(5) To fine and to revoke the operating license or permit issued to that party.

Criminal Prosecution

51.
In enforcing this Act and the regulations made under this Act, if the act committed by any party in violation of this Act or a regulation constitutes a criminal offense, it shall be reported to the relevant authorities for investigation.

Sharing Information on the Outcome of the Case

52.
The outcome of cases sent by the Authority to the relevant parties for civil or criminal prosecution under this Act shall be notified to the Authority by those parties.

Making Temporary Arrangements for Uninterrupted Service

53.
If a party who has an operating license or an exclusive operating license to provide water and sewerage services under this Act is unable or unwilling to provide the service for any reason during the period for which the license is valid, the Authority has the power to order the provision of the service without any change to the price at which the service was being provided until another party is arranged to provide the service.

Taking Action

54.
Unless otherwise specified in this Act, the penalties for violating this Act shall be the administrative penalties specified in this section.

(a) A person who intentionally provides false or misleading information when providing information to the Authority or the Ministry or a party designated by the Ministry and the Authority shall be fined an amount not exceeding MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand);

(b) The penalty for a person who establishes a water and sewerage system without obtaining a permit under this Act is a fine not exceeding MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand);

(c) The penalty for a person who provides water and sewerage services without obtaining a license or permit under this Act is a fine not exceeding MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand);

(d) The penalty for a person who amends a license without the permission of the Authority or who works outside the scope of the issued license is a fine not exceeding MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand);

(e) If a service provider fails to rectify a matter within the period given for rectification, the penalty for that party is a fine not exceeding MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand);

(f) The penalty for a person who uses water and sewerage in an improper manner is a fine not exceeding MVR 1,000,000 (one million);

(g) The penalty for a person who intentionally or otherwise damages the facilities and services of a water and sewerage service provider, or who commits any act to obstruct the provision of services, is a fine not exceeding MVR 1,000,000 (one million);

(h) The penalty for a person who, without a reasonable cause, obstructs a person authorized by a water and sewerage service provider or an employee of that provider from entering a place that needs to be entered to carry out work related to water and sewerage, from carrying out work that needs to be done, or from bringing or taking away something that is under the ownership of that provider, is a fine not exceeding MVR 5,000 (five thousand);

(i) If a person fails to provide information requested by the Ministry within the period requested by the Ministry without a reasonable cause, the penalty for such a person is a fine not exceeding MVR 5,000 (five thousand);

(j) The penalty for a person who enters the area of land and buildings provided to a service provider for the provision of water or sewerage services without the permission of the service provider, or who uses such a place, is a fine between MVR 1,000 (one thousand) and MVR 10,000 (ten thousand);

(k) If a person intentionally or negligently alters or facilitates the alteration of a meter installed to measure the amount of water used for the purpose of misrepresenting the amount of water used or for any other purpose, the penalty for that person is a fine between MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand); and if this offense is repeated, that person shall be fined MVR 5,000 (five thousand) for each day that has passed during the period in which it is established that the meter has been altered;

(l) If a person uses water supplied by a water service provider for residential purposes and for social activities for commercial purposes, the penalty for that person is a fine between MVR 1,000 (one thousand) and MVR 25,000 (twenty-five thousand);

(m) The penalty for a person who opens, closes, or alters a valve, a fitting, or a manhole installed by a service provider for the provision of water or sewerage services is a fine between MVR 1,000 (one thousand) and MVR 25,000 (twenty-five thousand);

(n) The penalty for a person who intentionally or negligently puts any substance into the water system that may cause any change to the quality of the water supplied by the service provider, or who does anything that may facilitate the entry of such a substance into the system, is a fine between MVR 50,000 (fifty thousand) and MVR 100,000 (one hundred thousand);

(o) The penalty for a person who obstructs an enforcement officer from performing his duties and responsibilities under this Act or a regulation made under this Act, obstructs the provision of services, or intentionally or negligently causes physical harm to, harasses, or otherwise obstructs a service provider's employee while on duty is a fine between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 25,000 (twenty-five thousand), and if the act committed constitutes a criminal offense, it shall be reported to the relevant authorities for investigation; and

(p) If a person uses water from the freshwater lens of an island or from a natural lake or body of water to produce water, the person who did it shall be fined an amount between MVR 500,000 (five hundred thousand) and MVR 1,000,000 (one million).

(q) The Authority has the power to fine a person who carries out the work of extracting water from the ground and dewatering it in violation of this Act and the regulations made under this Act an amount between MVR 5,000 (five thousand) and MVR 1,000,000 (one million), taking into account the seriousness of the act.

Chapter Nine
Miscellaneous

Rights of Persons Subject to Action

55.
A person who is dissatisfied with an action taken by the Authority because it is found by the Authority that he has violated this Act and a regulation made under this Act has the right to file the matter with the relevant court within 30 (thirty) days.

Confidentiality

56.
(a) Except for the information specified in subsection (b) of this section, any information obtained by any person, company, or government agency under this Act shall be provided only to a party legally authorized to receive that information.

(b) The disclosure of the following information or any part thereof by the Minister or the Authority or an employee of the Authority shall not be considered a violation of subsection (a) of this section by the Minister or the Authority or that employee of the Authority's office:

(1) Information that is publicly available from the Authority;
(2) Information for which written permission to disclose has been given by the owner of the information;
(3) Information that must be disclosed under a court order;
(4) Information disclosed by one employee of the Authority to another employee of the Authority within the scope of work; and
(5) Information requested through an official document for a case being investigated by a government institution under another law.

Legal Protection

57.
(a) An employee shall not be held personally liable for any damage sustained or any legal proceedings instituted in connection with the performance of his duties in enforcing this Act and the regulations made under this Act. In such cases, the liability shall be borne by the office where the employee works.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, an employee shall be liable for any damage caused by his negligence or for any offense committed by him.

Making Regulations

58.
(a) All regulations that need to be made under this Act shall be made by the Ministry.

(b) The regulations that need to be made under this Act shall be made and published publicly within a maximum of 6 (six) months from the date of commencement of this Act.

Commencement of the Act

59.
This Act shall come into force on the date of its passing, ratification, and publication in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

Primacy of this Act

60.
If there is a conflict between this Act and other laws regarding water and sewerage, this Act shall prevail upon its commencement.

Repealed Law

61.
Upon the commencement of this Act, all parts of the Public Utilities Act (Act No. 4/96) relating to water and sewerage are repealed.

Definitions

62.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms and phrases shall have the meanings given below:

(a) "Ministry" means the ministry to which the responsibility for implementing water and sewerage policies is assigned at that time.

(b) "Minister" means the minister of the ministry to which the responsibility for implementing water and sewerage policies is assigned at that time.

(c) "Freshwater production plant" means a system that produces or purifies water using saltwater or any water resource. A freshwater production system shall be considered to include all the equipment and parts involved from the point where water is taken into the system until clean water is produced.

(d) "Sewerage system" means the network of sewerage pipes established to collect and transport sewage and wastewater from household toilets, and all the parts included in that network.

(e) "Water resources" means the types of water that exist naturally in the Maldives.

(f) "Authority" means the "Utilities Regulatory Authority" established under a law to enforce matters related to the provision of public utility services.

(g) "Strategic Plan" means the strategic plan formulated in relation to water and sewerage.

(h) "Service charge" means the price charged to the public for providing services from the water and sewerage systems established in the cities and islands of the Maldives.

(i) "License" means a permit granted for the provision of water and sewerage services subject to certain conditions and on the basis of those conditions.

(j) "Water service" means the service of producing and supplying water for public use, for business use, and for industrial use.

(k) "Sewerage service" means the service of collecting, treating, and managing sewage, wastewater, and contaminated liquids produced from residential and other places through a pipeline or in any other way.

(l) "Sewage and wastewater" means the water discharged from toilets, kitchens, washbasins, and washing machines.

(m) "Sewage and wastewater treatment system" means a system that treats sewage and wastewater discharged from a sewerage system to a level that does not harm the environment or living organisms of any place where it is discharged.

(n) "Service provider" means the parties who provide water and sewerage services under an agreement made with the Ministry or the Authority.

(o) "Freshwater lens" means the water that is naturally formed underground in an island; the area of the groundwater lens shall be considered to be the area from the point where water is found underground to the point where the salinity or electrical conductivity of the seawater is reached.

(p) "Contamination" means any change to the physical, chemical, and biological properties of the water supplied by the service provider that makes the water turbid and which may have an adverse effect on the health of humans, animals, or plants if the water is used.

(q) "Drinking water" means water that meets the standards for water suitable for human consumption as determined by the Authority.

(r) "Water production" means the production of water for drinking and for public use by extracting water from saltwater, rainwater, or underground with the help of technology.

(s) "Industrial use" means any work carried out to obtain an economic benefit.

(t) "Service area" means the areas designated by the Authority for the provision of water or sewerage services.

(u) "Council's jurisdiction" means the areas designated as the jurisdiction of that island under the Decentralization Act of the Maldives (Act No. 7/2010).

(v) "Treatment" means the purification of unsafe substances contained in water to a level suitable for a specific purpose or purposes.
