Whistleblower Protection Act

Chapter One
Introduction

Introduction and Name
1.
(a) This is an Act that specifies the procedures for submitting information or whistleblowing in relation to an act defined as an undesirable act in this Act, the protection that must be afforded to a whistleblower, the procedures to be followed by the receiving parties upon receiving information through whistleblowing, and other principles necessary to stop undesirable acts and to foster a transparent, accountable, and integrity-based culture.

(b) This Act shall be cited as the "Whistleblower Protection Act".

Purpose
2.
The purposes of this Act are to achieve the following:

(a) To establish a system for submitting information on undesirable acts and whistleblowing, and to encourage whistleblowing;

(b) To adequately investigate and take action on information received through whistleblowing;

(c) To provide protection and safety to whistleblowers;

(d) To foster a culture of accountability, transparency, and integrity within state institutions and private parties in responding to undesirable acts submitted in the manner prescribed in this Act;

(e) To encourage the responsible use of the rights granted to whistleblowers under this Act and to promote the full fulfillment of the responsibilities outlined in this Act.

Chapter Two
Whistleblowing

Whistleblowing
3.
In accordance with the principles set out in this Act, the submission of information that a state institution or a private party has committed, is committing, or may commit an undesirable act as described below is whistleblowing.

(a) Failure to fulfill a legal responsibility;

(b) Committing an act contrary to a human right;

(c) Committing an act contrary to an international humanitarian law;

(d) Corruption;

(e) Committing an act that poses a danger to public health or public safety;

(f) Committing an act that poses a danger to the environment;

(g) Misuse of a state position;

(h) Committing an act of obstruction of justice or an act of 'miscarriage of justice';

(i) Wasting a state resource or being negligent in its use;

(j) Committing any act defined as a criminal or administrative offense in a law;

(k) Retaliation for whistleblowing; and

(l) Any act intentionally committed to conceal any of the acts mentioned from (a) to (k) of this article.

Scope of the Act
4.
In addition to matters occurring in the Maldives, information regarding matters occurring outside the Maldives in relation to the party to whom the information pertains may also be submitted under this Act.

How Information Can Be Submitted
5.
Information may be submitted to a party designated as an information-receiving party in this Act through any of the following methods:

(a) By letter;

(b) By fax message;

(c) By phone call;

(d) Via the internet;

(e) Via SMS or MMS;

(f) By electronic mail or electronic message;

(g) By audio file;

(h) By video clip;

(i) In person.

Parties Who Can Whistleblow
6.
(a) The right to whistleblow is granted to each of the following parties:

(1) A state employee;

(2) An employee of a private party;

(3) Any legal person with the capacity to sue and be sued in its own name.

(b) The definition of employees in subsection (a) of this article includes permanent employees, temporary employees, parties working on a contract or project basis, or any person or party who is considered an employee of that party in any sense under the Employment Act, or any person from among those who held any of these capacities and whose employment was terminated less than 2 (two) years ago.

(c) Any party with the right to whistleblow has the right to submit information anonymously. Unless the basis of the information is not sufficiently stated in such a submission, the information must be accepted and investigated.

(d) If a situation protected under this Act is also eligible for protection under another law or regulation, this Act does not prevent the matter from being pursued through a system chosen by the whistleblower. Furthermore, submitting information to another such system shall not be a barrier to the right to submit information under this Act.

(e) The whistleblower must submit the information to the receiving party within a maximum of 2 (two) years from the date of the incident on which the information is based.

Belief That an Undesirable Act Is Occurring
7.
(a) If a whistleblower believes that an undesirable act has occurred, may occur, or is occurring, they may whistleblow in the manner prescribed in this Act. In this regard, if it appears that a person of reasonable intelligence, in the circumstances of the whistleblower and based on the information known to them at that time, could have believed so, then whistleblowing is permissible under this Act in that situation.

(b) A person who believes as stated in subsection (a) of this article has the right to disobey an order to avoid participating in an undesirable act. For the purpose of this article, leaving a task undone in disobedience of an order shall not be considered a breach of an agreement to which that person is a party. And no criminal or civil case may be filed, nor any administrative action taken against a person based on a task they left undone.

(c) Even if the matter for which information was submitted through whistleblowing, regarding an act stated as an undesirable act in Article 3 of this Act, did not occur as such, if the person whistleblew in the situation described in subsection (a) of this article, that person will receive the protection afforded to whistleblowers under this Act. And that person shall be considered a whistleblower for the purposes of this Act.

(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (c) of this article, a person who submits information that they know to be patently false will not receive protection under this Act.

Order of Disclosing Information
8.
(a) The following are the parties that receive complaints submitted under this Act. And, unless otherwise specified in this Act, information shall be submitted to these parties by whistleblowing in the following order:

(1) To the place of the information-recipient through the internal mechanism established for receiving information;

(2) To the most senior person of the information-recipient or to a person designated by them to receive information;

(3) The Whistleblower Protection Unit mentioned in Article 23 of this Act.

(b) The order of disclosing information under this Act shall be determined in accordance with the following principles:

(1) If, upon disclosing information in accordance with the standards set in this Act, the information is not being adequately investigated, or if submitting information to a particular party could lead to the destruction or concealment of evidence, or influencing a witness, or could cause harm to the whistleblower or another party, or if there is a reasonable cause to believe that the party lacks the capacity to investigate the information and take action, the information may be submitted to another party.

(2) If the information is to be submitted to a party that has an internal arrangement for receiving information through whistleblowing, the information shall be submitted through that arrangement.

(3) If whistleblowing about a party that does not have an internal arrangement, the information shall be submitted to the most senior person of that party or another person designated by that party for this purpose.

(4) If there is a reasonable cause to believe that a situation as described in sub-article (1) of this subsection may arise if information is submitted to the internal arrangement established for receiving information, or to the head of an institution or a person designated by them, the whistleblower has the option to submit the information directly to the Whistleblower Protection Unit.

(5) If there is a reasonable cause to believe that a situation as described in sub-article (1) of this subsection may arise if the information is submitted to the Whistleblower Protection Unit mentioned in this Act, the whistleblower has the option to disclose the information publicly.

(c) When publicly disclosing information as stated in sub-article (5) of subsection (b) of this article, if more information is disclosed than is necessary to investigate the undesirable act contained in the information, or if information irrelevant to the case is disclosed, or if personal information of any party is disclosed with the intent to cause harm, or if information is made public by presenting it as true when the person submitting the information knows it to be patently false, no protection will be provided under this Act.

(d) If information that could endanger national security, as mentioned in this article, is disclosed in whistleblowing, it must be submitted in accordance with the procedures established in this Act for whistleblowing containing such information. In matters not specifically stated otherwise in this article, the general articles of this Act shall apply.

(e)
(1) For the purpose of this Act, the following information shall be considered information that could endanger national security:
i. Information indicating the combat readiness of the national security forces of the Maldives;
ii. Information on combat tactics, resources, and other information that, if known, could be used to cause harm to a security force;
iii. Information that could be considered to pose a threat to public safety and security.

(2) If disclosing information that could endanger national security during whistleblowing, the person disclosing the information has the right to submit it to the Whistleblower Protection Unit in the very first stage without submitting it to the relevant institution.

(3) If information containing national security-related information is submitted and there is reasonable cause to believe that a situation as described in sub-article (5) of subsection (b) of this article may occur, and if national security-related information is publicly disclosed except where there is reasonable cause to believe that a person's or people's life or public health cannot be saved from harm or danger unless the information is disclosed to a public party, or by proving the public interest defense described in this Act, no protection will be provided under this Act.

Chapter Three
Protection of the Whistleblower

Protection from Reprisal
9.
No action shall be taken against any person or any party as a form of reprisal due to whistleblowing or attempting to whistleblow, or for being believed to have done or to be likely to do such an act. For the purpose of this article, protection under this Act shall also be provided from reprisal for disobeying an order, or attempting to disobey an order, as per Article 7(b) of this Act, or for being believed to have committed any such act.

Acts Considered as Reprisal
10.
If any of the following measures are taken against a person due to whistleblowing, or if there is any form of reprisal or discrimination in the work environment, it will be considered reprisal for the purposes of this Act:

(a) Dismissal from employment;

(b) Isolation from responsibilities;

(c) Change of workplace, department, or section, or demotion;

(d) Reducing, increasing, or changing working hours;

(e) Placing on probation;

(f) Withholding any employment-related benefit as a punishment, or delaying a decision on such a benefit;

(g) Denying or restricting opportunities for promotion or training;

(h) Lowering of position or benefits;

(i) Giving advice or a warning related to employment;

(j) Causing harm, intimidation, and threats;

(k) Any other such acts committed against a whistleblower.

Submitting Information on Reprisal
11.
(a) If a measure from among the measures specified in Article 10 of this Act is taken as a reprisal, the party who suffered damages due to the reprisal has the right to submit the matter to the Employment Tribunal if it is a matter within the jurisdiction of the Employment Act, and to submit other matters to the court.

(b) Information about a measure taken as a reprisal must be submitted to the Whistleblower Protection Unit within a maximum of 3 (three) years from the date of the incident on which the information about the reprisal is based.

(c) If there is reasonable cause to believe that the party suffering harm may suffer irreparable damage if immediate action is not taken to stop an act of reprisal, the Whistleblower Protection Unit has the power to order various parties to do or not to do a specific act in order to prevent that damage.

Compensation for Damages
12.
(a) The party who suffered damages has the right to receive compensation for the damages resulting from reprisal, in the manner prescribed in this Act. And the Employment Tribunal or the court with jurisdiction to hear the matter shall determine the compensation under this article by giving priority to the following matters in this order:

(1) Giving priority to providing the compensation for damages requested by the aggrieved party to the extent that it is proven on a civil standard; or

(2) In situations where it is possible to restore the situation to how it was before the damage occurred, or to a similar alternative, giving priority to changing the matter to that state; in this regard, if the aggrieved party requests a change of office or site within the work environment, and if such an arrangement can be made by the employer, it should be arranged accordingly; or

(3) If the situation cannot be changed, giving priority to providing appropriate financial compensation for the damage suffered, taking into account the economic values at that time.

(b) In addition to the person who committed the act of reprisal in the work environment, the employer may also be held jointly and severally liable to pay compensation for the resulting damages. However, if the employer proves that they have taken reasonable steps to prevent the act of reprisal, the employer shall not be liable to pay compensation for damages under this article.

Protection from Civil and Criminal Lawsuits and Administrative Actions
13.
(a) No criminal or civil lawsuit shall be brought against a whistleblower for any act they do or refrain from doing in the course of whistleblowing in accordance with the provisions of this Act. Nor shall any administrative action be taken in relation thereto. However, this Act does not prevent a criminal or civil lawsuit from being brought against the whistleblower or any other party due to a matter contained in the information disclosed by the whistleblower.

(b) If there is any law, regulation, or agreement that authorizes any kind of action against a whistleblower, or that prohibits or criminalizes whistleblowing, due to an act done or refrained from doing in the course of whistleblowing, that part of it shall be void.

Confidentiality of Whistleblower's Information
14.
(a) Upon whistleblowing, the receiving party must keep the following information of the whistleblower confidential:

(1) All personal information of the whistleblower, such as:
(i) The full name and common name of the whistleblower;
(ii) The permanent and current address of the whistleblower;
(iii) The age of the whistleblower;
(iv) The Maldivian identity card number of the whistleblower.

(2) Information about the whistleblower's family;

(3) The place of employment, office, or branch of the whistleblower and the position of the whistleblower;

(4) The means of communication and numbers to contact the whistleblower, electronic message or mail address, and other ways to contact that person via the internet;

(5) In addition to the information specified in this subsection, any information that could reveal the identity of the whistleblower.

(b) Even if the information was provided to the whistleblower by a third party, the whistleblower has the option not to disclose the personal or other information of that party for the purpose of confirming the existence of a third party. And parties who exercise this option shall not be discriminated against in any way solely for that reason.

Receiving Safety and Protection
15.
If the Whistleblower Protection Unit deems it necessary to provide protection to a whistleblower under this Act, or if the whistleblower requests such protection, the Whistleblower Protection Unit has the authority to order the state's security services to provide safety and protection to that person in a specific manner.

Burden of Proof
16.
(a) It is not the responsibility of the whistleblower to prove the matters involved in a case being investigated as a result of whistleblowing.

(b) In cases submitted to seek compensation for damages resulting from an act of reprisal for whistleblowing, it is the responsibility of the party against whom the case is filed to prove that a particular action was taken or an act was committed not because of the whistleblowing, and that there were reasonable grounds to take the same action in the same way or to do a particular thing even if the whistleblowing had not occurred.

Providing Protection to Other Parties
17.
Any party that assists, participates in, or otherwise cooperates on their own initiative in an investigation related to whistleblowing shall receive the same protection afforded to a whistleblower under this chapter.

Chapter Four
Responsibilities of Information-Receiving Parties

Responsibilities of Information-Receiving Parties
18.
The following are the responsibilities of state and private parties as information-receiving parties:

(a) To provide their employees with information regarding the rights granted to employees under this Act, information about whistleblowing, the procedures for whistleblowing, the protection provided from acts of reprisal for whistleblowing, and any other information regarding the rights afforded to employees in relation to whistleblowing, and generally, all information related to this Act;

(b) For state and private parties to provide their employees with information regarding matters that could be considered acts of reprisal for whistleblowing, the process of reporting such matters, and the right to seek compensation for resulting damages;

(c) To investigate the submitted information, keep the information of whistleblowers confidential, provide them with safety and protection as prescribed in this Act, investigate information on reprisal for whistleblowing, and take action as prescribed in this Act;

(d) If an information-receiving party requests the assistance of the Whistleblower Protection Unit regarding compliance with this Act, or if the Unit deems it necessary to provide information and assistance to an information-receiving party on its own initiative regarding the responsibilities to be fulfilled under this Act, the Unit shall provide that party with information and assistance.

Primary Information-Receiving Party
19.
(a) In the case of information relating to a member of the People's Majlis, the primary information-receiving party is the administrative office of the People's Majlis.

(b) In the case of information relating to a specific court, including all magistrate courts, lower courts, appellate courts, and tribunals, the primary information-receiving party is the administrative office established in that court or tribunal.

Arrangements by State Institutions
20.
(a) Within 90 (ninety) days from the date this Act comes into effect, state institutions must establish internal whistleblowing arrangements and provide information about these arrangements to their employees.

(b) It is the responsibility of the Whistleblower Protection Unit to regularly monitor whether the information-receiving parties under this Act are implementing the matters specified in subsection (a) of this article to ensure their enforcement.

Investigation Upon Whistleblowing
21.
(a) Within a maximum of 3 (three) days from the submission or transfer of information to parties with an internal arrangement for investigation upon whistleblowing, or a designated party, and the Whistleblower Protection Unit:

(1) If that party does not have the jurisdiction to investigate the information, after informing the person who submitted the information, the information must be transferred to the party with the jurisdiction to investigate it or to the Whistleblower Protection Unit.

(2) If that party has the jurisdiction to investigate the information, the information shall be registered and the person who disclosed the information shall be notified. And

(3) If the information is not information for which protection is provided under this Act, the person who submitted the information must be notified of the reason why protection is not provided. Even in this case, the receiving party shall not share confidential information of the person who submitted the information with another party.

(b) The case must be investigated and concluded within a maximum of 21 (twenty-one) days from the date of registering the submitted information. And, if the information-receiving party finds that the investigation cannot be completed within this period, an additional period not exceeding 30 (thirty) days required to complete the investigation shall be determined, and the person who submitted the information shall be notified of this at least 48 (forty-eight) hours before the expiry of this period.

(c) The information-receiving parties designated in this Act must investigate the information submitted under this Act. And, in investigating information submitted under this Act, the information-receiving parties have the power to determine as quickly as possible whether or not the undesirable act mentioned in the information has occurred, and to order a specific action to be taken or not to be taken to mitigate the negative effects of that act.

(d) The Whistleblower Protection Unit has the discretion to request the assistance of any institution empowered by law to conduct investigations in relation to a matter submitted under this Act. And, for the purpose of investigation, the Whistleblower Protection Unit may also seek the assistance of private parties or the general public. However, when requesting such assistance, it is mandatory for the Whistleblower Protection Unit and other state institutions and agencies to make arrangements that do not disclose any confidential information of the person who submitted the information and do not cause any other harm to the person who submitted the information.

(e) In addition to the information kept confidential under this Act, if the receiving party believes on reasonable grounds that an act of influencing the investigation, destroying evidence, or intimidating a witness may occur in connection with the submitted information, this Act does not prevent a secret investigation from being conducted.

Investigation Report
22.
(a) After completing the investigation, the investigating party must prepare an investigation report including the following:

(1) Details of the information submitted;

(2) Details of how the investigation was conducted;

(3) Details of the findings of the investigation;

(4) Measures that can be taken to prevent the recurrence of the investigated act;

(5) If prosecution is requested against any party in light of the investigation, the details of that charge and the reason for such a request.

(b) The investigation report shall be made public as follows:

(1) If no undesirable act as noted in the disclosure of information has occurred, or if the information submitted is not information for which protection is provided under this Act, the investigation report related to that information may be made public after keeping the information related to the person who disclosed the information confidential, and after redacting any information that could harm the reputation of any party.

(2) If it is found in light of the investigation that a criminal charge needs to be brought against any party, that matter must be shared with the institutions authorized by the state to investigate and prosecute. In this case, the investigation report can be made public before a court judgment only to the extent that it does not hinder the prosecution related to that investigation.

(3) If the investigation reveals that no undesirable act has occurred, this must be shared with the party to whom the information was directed and the party who submitted the information.

(4) The preceding articles do not prevent the sharing of the progress of the investigation and the outcome of the investigation with the person who submitted the information.

Chapter Five
Whistleblower Protection Unit

Whistleblower Protection Unit
23.
(a) Upon the commencement of this Act, a unit named the "Whistleblower Protection Unit" shall be established in the Human Rights Commission, which is established by the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives. The Whistleblower Protection Unit is the body that works to secure the protection provided by this Act to whistleblowers, and receives information given by whistleblowers and forwards that information to the relevant investigative bodies.

(b) The head of the Whistleblower Protection Unit shall be appointed by the Human Rights Commission. The head of the Unit must be appointed within 21 (twenty-one) days from the date this Act comes into force.

(c) The Whistleblower Protection Unit is a unit that has complete independence in deciding matters that fall within its responsibilities.

(d) The head of the Whistleblower Protection Unit is a person who must be directly accountable to the relevant committee of the People's Majlis. And a report on the cases submitted to the unit must be sent to the committee of the People's Majlis once every 6 (six) months. The report sent to the committee shall not include the personal information of whistleblowers.

(e) The secretariat of the Whistleblower Protection Unit shall be established and the regulations for its operation shall be formulated by the Human Rights Commission.

(f) It is the responsibility of the Unit to provide information and guidance on any matter related to this Act at the request of a specific party or on the Unit's own initiative. If any party submits information to the Unit that they have whistleblown, are about to whistleblow, or are considering whistleblowing, it is the responsibility of the Unit to provide that party with the following information and guidance:

(1) What constitutes whistleblowing under this Act and the situations in which the protection and safety of this Act will be provided;

(2) The procedures for submitting information under this Act and the circumstances under which information can be submitted to different parties;

(3) The procedures for submitting information on reprisal for whistleblowing, and information related to seeking compensation for damages resulting from it;

(4) Information on all other rights and benefits afforded to the whistleblower under this Act;

(5) Information on other remedies available under law and regulations to the parties who are provided protection under this Act;

(6) Providing legal advice under a regulation established by the Whistleblower Protection Unit.

Responsibilities of the Whistleblower Protection Unit
24.
In addition to the other matters specified as the responsibility of the Whistleblower Protection Unit in this Act, the responsibilities and duties of the Whistleblower Protection Unit are set out below:

(a) Establishing arrangements for submitting information;

(b) Accepting information upon submission;

(c) Keeping the identity and other personal information of the person submitting the information confidential;

(d) Conducting necessary investigations in relation to the information;

(e) Among the cases submitted to the Whistleblower Protection Unit, if there is a case for which a specific agency is given the jurisdiction to investigate by law, to send that matter to that agency for investigation;

(f) Investigating information submitted regarding reprisal for whistleblowing in the same manner as other general information submitted through whistleblowing.

Annual Report
25.
The annual report of the Whistleblower Protection Unit shall be sent to the President of the Republic and the People's Majlis in the first week of February of each calendar year. This report must include details of the following matters:

(a) The regulations made by the Whistleblower Protection Unit under this Act, amendments made to the regulations, and orders issued by the Unit using the powers granted under this Act;

(b) The total number of cases submitted to the Whistleblower Protection Unit under this Act, the number of instances where the Unit has taken action, and the type of information submitted;

(c) The number and type of assistance and advice provided by the Whistleblower Protection Unit under this Act;

(d) Other activities carried out by the Whistleblower Protection Unit within the scope specified in this Act.

Chapter Six
Miscellaneous

Criminal Offenses
26.
(a) If a criminal offense is committed against any person or any party as a form of reprisal for whistleblowing, or attempting to whistleblow, or on suspicion of having committed any such act, the penalty for this offense is the penalty prescribed for that offense in the Penal Code of the Maldives (Act No. 9/2014).

(b) Disclosing information specified in Article 14 of this Act, except to the extent and in the manner specified in this Act, is an offense under this Act. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law, the penalty for the offense specified in this subsection is imprisonment for a period of between 3 (three) months and 5 (five) years.

(c) Destroying a document or any other evidence related to an investigation conducted as a result of whistleblowing, or intimidating or exerting influence on a potential witness, is an offense under this Act. The penalty for this offense is the penalty prescribed for that offense in the Penal Code of the Maldives (Act No. 9/2014).

(d) Due to any matter arising in connection with the investigation or prosecution of a criminal offense specified in this Act, no distinction shall be made in providing the whistleblower with the right to seek safety and protection, protection from reprisal, compensation for damages, and other rights specified in this Act as being available to the whistleblower.

(e) A person shall be guilty of an act noted as an offense in this Act as follows:

(1) The person or persons who directly committed the act are guilty;

(2) If it is known that a decision to take or not to take a particular action was made with the support of a particular person or persons, the group that supported making the decision in that manner is guilty;

(3) If it is proven that a particular action was taken or not taken without the person or group who made the decision knowing about the whistleblowing, that person or group is not guilty under this Act.

(f) If an order issued by the Whistleblower Protection Unit under Article 11(c) of this Act is not complied with, the Unit has the discretion to fine the party that refused to comply with the order an amount not exceeding MVR 1,000,000 (one million). And the Whistleblower Protection Unit has the discretion to waive or refund such a fine upon compliance with the order.

Public Interest Defense
27.
(a) Even in a situation where a condition for providing protection to a whistleblower under this Act is not met, if the public interest is better served by disclosing the information rather than keeping it confidential, no criminal or civil case shall be brought against the person disclosing the information for doing so. Nor shall any administrative action be taken.

(b) The discretion to determine that information is in the public interest is granted to the following parties in the following circumstances:

(1) To the court hearing a criminal or civil case, upon the request of the defendant in defense of a charge brought in connection with the disclosure of information;

(2) To the Whistleblower Protection Unit, if any party submits a request to the Unit to determine that particular information is in the public interest;

(3) In determining public interest, reference shall be made to the meaning given to those terms in this Act. And, in a matter not specified in this Act, reference shall be made to the standards used in free, democratic societies for interpreting public interest.

(c) No party shall obstruct the public disclosure of information not determined to be in the public interest, as provided for by law, in accordance with subsection (b) of this article. And no party shall order that information to be kept secret or not published.

(d) In determining whether the public interest defense applies, in addition to the circumstances surrounding the case, the following criteria must be considered:

(1) The extent to which information about an undesirable act has been disclosed; and

(2) The extent to which personal information of a particular person or group, unrelated to an undesirable act, has been disclosed.

(e) If there are reasonable grounds to believe that accepting information submitted after the expiry of a date specified in this Act is more beneficial to the public interest than not accepting it, the receiving party must accept that information.

Formulating Regulations
28.
(a) Each institution has the discretion to make regulations to the extent necessary to fulfill the responsibilities assigned to it under this Act.

(b) It is the responsibility of the Whistleblower Protection Unit to make regulations detailing the procedures for submitting, receiving, and investigating information confidentially, and other related procedures, and to establish a system for submitting confidential information, within 90 (ninety) days from the date this Act comes into force.

(c) As state institutions have a responsibility to establish internal whistleblowing arrangements within their institutions and to provide information about these arrangements to their employees within 90 (ninety) days from the date this Act comes into effect, information and assistance must be provided to state institutions to prepare for this.

(d) If no specific date is set for the Whistleblower Protection Unit or any other party to make a regulation that must be made under this Act, or to complete any other matter that must be completed, that matter must be completed within 60 (sixty) days from the date this Act comes into force.

(e) If any fine is imposed or money is collected for the state in any other way under this Act, the Whistleblower Protection Unit must review these amounts at least once every 3 (three) years and make necessary changes considering the economic situation and people's affordability.

Commencement of the Act
29.
(a) This Act shall come into force on the day it is passed, ratified, and published in the Government Gazette of the Maldives.

(b) If there is any conflict between any law or regulation in force at the time this Act comes into effect and a matter specified in this Act, that part of the existing law or regulation is hereby repealed upon the commencement of this Act.

(c) This Act shall not have retroactive effect on acts done in the course of whistleblowing before this Act came into force. However, this Act does not prevent the whistleblowing under this Act of an act that occurred before this Act came into force.

Interpretation of the Act
30.
(a) This Act shall be interpreted in accordance with the Constitution and the principles of Islam, and in a manner consistent with the international treaties to which the Maldives is a party.

(b) The concepts specified in this Act are specified herein to preserve the essence of this Act and to facilitate the achievement of the objectives of this Act to the fullest extent. Every article of this Act shall be read or interpreted in a way that does not narrow these concepts.

Definitions
31.
Unless the context in which a phrase or word is used in this Act clearly indicates otherwise, the following phrases and words shall have the meanings given below in relation to them.

(a) "Danger to the environment" refers to an act contrary to the Environmental Protection and Preservation Act of the Maldives, or any other act that poses a danger to the environment.

(b) "Danger to public health or public safety" refers to a danger to the life, health, or safety of a person or persons living in the general public from any act done or not done.

(c) "Wasting a state resource or being negligent in its use" refers to the use of any resource in a manner contrary to the way its benefits were intended to be received, or in a way that its full potential is not realized, or acting in a way that would waste it. Thus:
(1) The act is inappropriate, or contrary to justice and equality, or an act that discriminates against any party; or
(2) A matter has been handled with negligence or has been unduly delayed; or
(3) An act has been committed without permission or by using a power not granted.

(d) "Act contrary to an international humanitarian law" refers to an act contrary to the 1949 Geneva Conventions, their Additional Protocols and Commentaries, and other international treaties included within international humanitarian law to which the Maldives is a party.

(e) "Act contrary to a human right" refers to any act stated as being contrary to a human right in the laws of the Maldives and in the international treaties to which the Maldives is a party.

(f) "Corruption" refers to acts included as acts of corruption in the laws of the Maldives, in international treaties to which the Maldives is a party, and specifically in the "UN Convention Against Corruption".

(g) "Misuse of a state position" refers to being in any salaried position of the state and contravening a matter specified in law and regulations, or in an agreement, regarding that position, or in this way failing to fulfill the responsibilities of the assigned position, or doing things not included in the responsibilities of the position, and using the position and status to advance personal interests.

(h)
(1) "Obstruction of justice" or "miscarriage of justice" refers to the use of undue influence at any stage of the administration of justice, including in the lower courts and appellate courts; or
(2) Exerting undue influence on any judge or employee of the judicial sector or any other party to do or not to do a specific thing in a specific way in relation to the administration of justice generally, or in a specific judicial case; or attempting to do any of the aforesaid acts.

(i) "Reprisal" refers to taking a measure against a whistleblower in the work environment from among the measures specified in Article 10 of this Act.

(j) "State parties" refers to:
(1) Ministries, departments, and all other agencies established under them, which are part of the executive branch;
(2) All institutions within the legislative branch, members of the People's Majlis, the secretariat of the People's Majlis, and all its offices;
(3) Judicial courts and tribunals, and all departments, offices, and agencies within the sphere of the administration of justice;
(4) Other state institutions;
(5) Companies run by the government and companies in which the government is a shareholder;
(6) Companies and other institutions, associations, and organizations, and political parties that receive funds from the state's finances in any way; and
(7) Any institution related to any act done or any decision made by the state.

(k) "Private parties" refers to any party with the status of a legal person that is not specified as a state party in this Act.

(l) "Undesirable act" refers to any act as detailed in Article 3 of this Act.

(m) "Whistleblowing" refers to the disclosure of information about an undesirable act in the manner prescribed in this Act.

(n) "Disclosure" or "submitting information by whistleblowing" refers to providing information about an undesirable act to a party specified in this Act, in a manner stated in this Act to be required.

(o) "Information-receiving party" refers to any party designated as an information-receiving party for whistleblowing under this Act.

(p) "State's security services" refers to the military service and police service of the Maldivian state, including all institutions comprised within these services, and any party that has the legal power and authority to use force in the name of the state.

(q) "The State" refers to the state of the Maldives established under the Constitution of the Republic of Maldives, including the executive, judicial, and legislative powers of the Maldives.

(r) "Public interest" refers to matters that affect the lives of a large number of people in the society as a whole, and thus are related to public health, safety and security, the economic and social systems of the society, the environment, and sustainable development.

(s) "Public party" refers, for the purpose of Article 8 of this Act, to any third party. This includes the news media, investigative bodies of the state or any other party, and all third parties.
